LIBRO Life of Zapata

While most Chicanos are well-aware of he importance of Emiliano Zapata in the Mexican revolution(s), only a few know more than the highlights of Zapata's life. If you'd like more than just a casual knowledge of Zapata's life and limes, the editors of ’EI Grito de Norte' have published an illustrated cartoon detailing Zapata's life from his childhood to his death. The book is written in both English and Spanish, and is entitled Emiliano Zapata, his life was La Recvolucion." Beginning with the Zapata's early life as a campesino. one of the poor people who worked the land, the book follows his long struggle to return the land to the people who owned it. Zapata's childhood village was constantly under the threat of seizure by the rich landowners and the tyrannical regime of Porfirio Diaz, tyrant of Mexico. More and more of the good lands were being seized by the wealthy landowners. Zapata grew to manhood as Diaz kicked the campesinos off the land of their fathers, but the peasants sometimes fought back against the Federates and the hacienda hat-chet-men. Emiliano first opposed tyranny when the soldiers and hatchelmen came to a nearby village and killed many poor farmers. _ • As Emiliano and his brother Eufemio rode to join other poor farmers, they were almost ambushed hut escaped to lice from the rural police. _ Zapata and his brother separated and went into hiding for several months, but Emiliano returned to his birthplace to join in what .would become a series of campesino revolts. Zapata's story is told in the historical context of revolutionary Mexico. There were many other revolutionary women and men who fought in that long, bloody struggle. Among these heroic people were the famous Pancho Villa (whose real name was Dorotea Arango) and Los Dorados. This account of Zapata's life by no means covers all of the heroic revolutionaries, for many of their names were buried with them. Yet this account will entertain thoroughly with its excellent illustrations and Tis bilingual text. El Diario hopes to sell copies of "Emiliano Zapata: his life was La Revolucion” for $1 a copy. If you would like to buy a copy, drop by our offices at the University Memorial Center, Room 416, in Boulder, or write to the same address for a mailed copy of the book.