Announcement of position vacancy
Chicano studies director needed
Southern Colorado State College Pueblo, Colorado TITLE OF POSITION: Director of Chicano Studies Program POSITION DESCRIPTION: This position requires the ability to carry out the administrative duties of a program director. These duties include: Budget preparation, program development, scheduling of classes, and routine office organization. In addition. the individual is expected to teach courses in the Chicano Studies Program and the Bilingual Bicultural Education program for elementary teachers. QUALIFICATIONS: Applicant must possess a masters degree, although a Ph.D. is preferred. STARTING DATE: September I. 1975 SALARY: 510,000 to 515.000 Based on education and experience. ABOUT SOUTHERN COLORADO STATE COLLEGE: Southern Colorado State College is a state supported' four-year institution of higher education located in Pueblo. Colorado. Pueblo is a city of 99,000 situated just east of the scenic Greenhorn Mountains. Geographically it is located at the juncture of U.S. Route 50 and Interstate 25. Southern Colorado State College was established as a four-year
State College by Legislative act in 1961 and evolved from the community operated Pueblo Junior College which was founded in 1933. During its transition from a two-year to a four-year institution, the College has successfully incorporated a complete junior college program within the undergraduate curriculum. In addition. an innovative Master ot Arts in Teaching program has recently received North Central accreditation. Southern Colorado State College offers a wide range of programs in both applied science and traditional academic disciplines. The College offers Associate in Arts, Associate in Applied Science, Bachelor ol Arts, Bachelor of Science, and Master of Arts in Teaching degrees. In the fall of 1974, over 7,000 students were enrolled in college courses and college sponsored programs. CLOSING DATE FOR RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS: May I, 1975. APPLICATION: Those wishing to apply for this position should forward a request for an application to: Dr. Joseph W. Cranmer, Chairman Division of Education and HPER Southern Colorado State College 2200 Bonforte Blvd. Pueblo, Colorado 81001
WASHINGTON New amendments to the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act (1963) were enacted into law by President Ford on December 7. Major points to these amendments, require contractors to: 1) increase accident insurance to protect workers 2) pay employees promptly and explain any pay deductions. 3) inform workers in writing and in a manner that is understandable to them, of living and working conditions, or of the existence of any labor dispute at the work site 4) Allow migrants to bring civil suit against contractors, and prohibit retaliatory action by contractors against workers who file complaints of suits
