CHICANO BUSINESS STUDENTS ASSOCIATION
The Chicano movement in this country has taken many forms and the need for formulating Chicano organizations has grown alongside the movement. Chicanos have not been a part of the economic machine, which operates large corporations, therefore, Chicanos do not have an equal share of the economic power, a power that governs the politics of the entire nation. The Chicano Business Students Association was formed to assist Chicanos by helping them get into business schodls and then out into the business world where their input is essential for all Chicano communities. CBSA at the University of Colorado is the largest chapter in the state, as well as the largest in the United States, presently consisting of 90 graduate and undergraduate members. The organization initiated in the fall of 1972'and had as its first president, Stan Perea. Presently, the officers of CBSA are as follows: president, Pete Escobedo; vice-president, Eugene Lucero; budget director, Phyllis Romero; secretaries, Carol Paiz, Yolanda Chavez. Their goal taken from a document written by Stan Perea is to establish a state organization based on the awareness of Chicano business students that a serious need exists for more and better qualified Chicano businessmen to serve their community, as the present business structure does not adequately deal with the business problems of the Chicano community. CBSA encourages Chicano students to enter the business fields to increase the number of Chicano managers and executives in business. CBSA also acts as a resource area, making available to the private and public sectors, names of Chicano business students who have completed their formal studies. ... CBSA has also developed a number of committees within the organization to better aid students. There is a fundraising committee, a grievance committee, an auditing committee, and a tutorial assistance committee, along with the * newly formed student organization, Unidos Hablamos ... a toastmasters group dedicated to self-improvement in public speaking. Students interested in business are welcome to attend CBSA meetings. The time and place will be posted at a later date. Our office is located in the Business building room 149, telephone 492-6181. All minorities planning or thinking of majoring in accounting are urged to apply for scholarships given by the: American Association of Spanish-Speaking Certified Public Accountants 3435 Wilshire Blvd., Suite no. 912 Los Angeles, California 90010 Send your name and address, in order to receive applications. C.B.S.A. SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ROOM 149 492-6181