UMAS/EOP services available
The United Mexican American Students/Educational Opportunity program (UMAS/EOP) was founded in 1968. Its purpose is to provide access and assist Chicano students to achieve the best possible education at the University-of Colorado. UMAS/EOP provides supportive services for students who have not had the opportunity to achieve their full potential in their education previous to entering the University. Services offered are: Admissions. Financial Aid, Academic Counseling. Tutoring, and EOP Controlled Classes. In addition, UMAS/EOP offers assistance to students in the following areas: Dental/Optical - An emergency fund designed to meet the medical needs of the UMAS/EOP student through financial assistance and direct referral to dentists/optometrists in the community.  Recreation - Provides a structured recreation program for UMAS/EOP students designed specifically to meet the mental and physical needs of students. Publications, Public Relations, and Graphics - Provides printed and visual information for UMAS/EOP and students through the Student Newsletter, news releases, posters and brochures. All UMAS/EOP students are asked to contribute written and/or art work for publications. Counseling - For exploring career objectives, the types of standards, as well as alternative careers that could be applicable, and how to prepare yourself for those positions. Resource Center - A library of catalogs, graduate opportunities applications, fee waivers, financial aid information, Fellowship/Graduate assistance, from other schools are available. Career Development - Exploring career opportunities, developing resumes, graduate school testing, graduate recruiter program, interviewing techniques, job search strategies, etc., Job Placement and Employment - Assists the UMAS/EOP student in making informed career decisions and enables them to successfully compete in the job market. Additionally, an up-to-date listing is kept on a day-to-day basis and services also include vacation job opportunities and part-time employment. 
Summer Institute - Students not normally meeting admission requirements because of low grades, low test scores, or a combination of the two are admitted to the University on a provisional basis. The Summer Institute is designed to give intensive schooling to students who may have academic deficiencies which may impede their progress. It is also designed to acclimate Chicano students to the University environment. The Institute provides instruction in English, mathematics, reading, and study skills as well as Chicano studies. Please hole, that non-resident students are not admitted for the Summer Institute. Student demonstrating financial need in the Summer Institute are provided room and board, fees, books, and a weekly stipend provided they are UMAS/EOP 1 students, are enrolled in the Summer Institute, and have fulfilled requirements for financial aid in the Office of Financial Aid. Students who do not demonstrate financial need and have been admitted to the Summer Institute must pay for their own room and board as well as all other expenses. Please note that students who successfully complete the Summer Institute in good standing (2.00 or better) arc automatically admitted in the Fall Semester if they desire to continue. The United Mexican American/EOP Program has 10 full-time staff members and JO part-time Work-Study student staff members who service the approximately 800 Chicano students currently enrolled in the program. UMAS/EOP admits students on an individual basis year-round from p wide range of Chicano communities both in Colorado and out-of-state. The only restrictions are that one must be of Chicano descent and a citizen or permanent resident of the United States. Interested persons should write: Mr. Alvaro Maldanado Recruitment Coordinator UMAS/EOP Willard Administrative Annex Room 320 University of Colorado Boulder, Colorado 80309 
You will receive: 1. Admissions application 2. Financial aid application materials and 3. Procedural information on how to fill out the applications. For more information call 492-8316

