Vote La Raza Unida
"There is nothing tragic as a satisfied slave" (Editor’s note: The following material was taken from the 1972 Colorado State | Platform of La Raza Unida Party. The platform was adopted at the state convention held August 5, 1972 at Greeley, Colorado.) INTRODUCTION I We believe: IT is a man's right-inherent with his existence to control and influence those factors that affect his life and his community. Only through control of his life and community can any person, or group of people, combat and overcome poverty, injustice, inequality and | racism In accordance with this belief, it is our immediate declaration that all institutions, organizations and agencies existing in, or purporting to exist for, Chicano communities | become accountable to the people that are the basis of their existence. With this theme underlying our efforts and guiding our actions, we address ourselves to the following: EDUCATION Recognizing that the future lives of all Chicanos rests largely in the nature, purpose and | quality of education made available to Chicano communities, we believe:  Foremost, that educational institutions and persons within those institutions must become g accountable to their action and for the quality of their services, to the people and £ communities they are supposed to serve. ... . That an education from kindergarten to college, free of fees, charges and tuition, and | independent of one's social and economic background be made available to all people: | That busing, desegregation and/or policies of racial balance are not effective means of | providing quality education for Chicano students. Rather, the following alternatives must be that guarantees each community—each Chicano community within a school district —representation on the local school board. 5 —Significantly increase community decision making responsibility in the affairs of schools located in that community.  Neighborhood schools must be strengthened financially, particularly those schools located in Chicano and/or poor areas.  That bilingual-bicultural education emphasizing and strengthening Chicano social and cultural assets, be adopted as an integral part of public education wherever Chicano students attend school. A system of school financing, equitable to all persons regardless of social and economic backgrounds be instituted. To this end. we focus special attention on:  A system of school financing, such as the Voucher system, that allows for equitable distribution of school funds and provides parents and communities with choice and decision making ability. The adequate financing of parallel of alternative school systems, designed to serve the unique needs of Chicano students and communities. I That parity for Chicano college students in the state's colleges and universities received proper legislative, administrative and financial support and priority: That education for Chicanos in a rural and/or migrant situation receive increased financial support and attention. POLITICAL INDEPENDENCE We reaffirm and restate our position as an independent political party, makingfl | independent decisions and action, and not as an endorsing organization.Direct questions to: La Raza Unida Party U 1567 Downing Street Denver. Colorado or call: 222-0825