Gutierrez on Raza politics past, future
Jose Angel Gutierrez, founder of La Raza Unida political party presented a series of lectures at the University during the last week in July. In a brief interview, Gutierrez told UMAS New Services that he didn't believe La Raza Unida Party would run a presidential candidate this year. But he said the delegates at the National Convention to be held the first four days of September would make the final decision. At one of his lectures in Macky Auditorium Gutierrez related a brief history of Chicanos in politics. Until recently, we have been used by the Gabachos, he said. The first election with Chicanos involvement was in 1928 with the election of Herbert Hoover. “He hired some Chicanos and sent them out to the southwest to campaign,” Gutierrez said. Then a “White Knight,” Jack Kennedy, appeared and the “Viva Kennedy” organization sprang up, he said. Today is no different, “McGovern comes into the Chicano community and puts on a sombrero because he thinks we like it. They think to get the Chicano vote they should drink a lot of beer and eat tacos!” Gutierrez said. In the 60’s, three major groups dominated the scene; the women, the youth and the farmworkers. With this came a new emphasis in the Spanish language. The new groups, like the first Chicano organizations, have Spanish names, he said. He criticized some of the early organizations for wanting to be like Anglo
organizations. They began impressing each other with Roberts Rules of Order and having conventions, but little was being done, he said. The G.I. Forum was not political, he said, but within the ranks of the organization came the terms Spanishspeaking, Mexican-American, etc. By 1960 groups like the Political Association of Spanish-speaking Organizers (PASO) and the MexicanAmerican Political Association (MAPA) were having hassles over whether they were Mexican-American, LatinAmerican or SpanishAmerican. PASO and MAPA were important because they were the first groups to send organizers into the communities, he said. Gutierrez also talked about his political theories. He said there are many ways to apply our Chicano political power. In one instance, he said, we may have five men running for office. Let's say the two with the highest vote will be elected. If four are Anglos and the other is a Chicano, the Chicano can win if the Chicanos vote right. If 75 per-
cent of the voters are Anglo they will, in most elections, spread their votes pretty evenly among the four Anglo Candidates, less than 20 percent each. When the Chicano comes up to vote, he votes for only the Chicano candidate. He has another vote, but he does not cast it because he would have to cast it for an Anglo. If all the Chicanos, the remaining 25 percent, would vote in this manner, the Chicano can win, he said. On National elections, Gutierrez said, that in some states the Chicano vote can be the deciding factor. In states where Chicanos live in large numbers, the voters are usually pretty evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans. If Chicanos form a block and vote as a block, they can make or break either party, he said. It is this second theory which Gutierrez said he feels can help Chicanos now. If we illustrate to the major parties that we can make or break them, then they will be more likely to make provisions for us, he said.