1st Migrant Summer Program
By JOHN ESPINOSA
Many Chicanos dream of the day when their children can enter into a public school in this country and be taught that Pancho Villa was much more than a Mexican bandit; that Cesar Chavez is an inspiration to suppressed men of all races and creeds; and that being brown is something very special. This summer, this dream and much more, has become a reality for over 100 children and their parents through the Title 1 Migrant Summer Program at Lincoln Elementary School in Boulder. Although the children have engaged in a number of multicultural activities, there has been an emphasis on the Chicano culture of the American southwest and Mexico. The majority of the children were of Mexican descent. The program was initiated by a planning committee of parents and Title 1 director Betty Treadwell served as an advisor. After consulting with other parents the committee began work on the program they hoped would encourage parent involvement as well as meet the immediate needs of the students of low-income and/or minority parents. The goals were: to develop learning skills such as reading; to develop a more positive self-concept; to provide opportunities for bicultural and bilingual understanding; and to continue correction of medical, dental, and psychological problems which affect school success and life adjustments, the program proposal stated. After more than six months of planning the program began under the directorship of Richard Garcia. At the end of the first summer, Garcia said he felt the program was very successful and he is certain it will continue. When asked whether the children enjoyed attending summer school. Garcia said, “School doesn't start until 9:30 in the morning, but the kids began coming at about 8 o'clock. . .and they don’t want to go home at I o'clock when school is out." One visit to the school will convince even the casual observer that there is a healthy learning experience taking place. On one visit, I saw several boys and a grown man playing with a refrigerator box. I didn't give it much thought until later when some of the boys came into the school with some newly
developed photographs. They had been using the box for a camera. It operated exactly like the shoe box camera except this one was large enough to climb into and watch the mystery of photography take place. The children have been studying political, athletic and military heroes with whom they can identify because the heroes were either poor or Mexican. The children are familiar with names like Zapata, Tijerina, Cesar, Corky as well as Lee Trevino, Jim Plunkett and Pancho Gonzales. 12-year-old Reuben Arroyo was doing a report on Army Staff Sergeant Macario Gar-
cia, winner of the Congressional Medal of Honor. “He (Garcia) was from Mexico and joined the Army in Texas. . .he became known as the ‘fearless Mexican’. . .1 can’t understand why nobody knew him and everybody knows Audy Murphy," Reuben said. Early in the summer the children staged a minor demonstration. Garcia said the children asked the cook if the lettuce they were being served at noon was union lettuce. The cook told them it was union lettuce, but some of the kids were not satisfied. They asked to see the box the lettuce had come packed in. It turned out that the lettuce was not United Farm Workers Union lettuce, it was Teamsters Union. They told the cook they wouldn't eat the lettuce. “The kids did it themselves, they weren't coaxed by the staff," Garcia said. During the summer the students have taken field trips to various places of interest. They have visited Fort Vasquez in northern Colorado, the Denver City Zoo and Stapleton International Airport. Along with the usual educational tasks, the children have been introduced to a number of special skills and projects. They have made adobe, painted, embroidered, grown small gardens, worked in a photography darkroom and learned dances. One project which the children and their parents
became involved in during the summer was the Boulder Pow Wow Parade. They worked for several weeks before the parade designing two beautiful floats. On the lead float they reconstructed the religious scene where Our Lady of
Guadelupe appeared before Juan Diego. The other float carried a band playing Mexican music and dancing children dressed in colorful homemade costumes. To the surprise of many Boulderites, the floats were followed by
children marching and carrying a banner reading “Boycott Lettuce” which ran the full width of the street. The program’s entry won the first place trophy in the float competition.
Pretty Chicanita rides in the rodeo parade. She, like the other children, is wearing a homemade fiesta dress.
The parade featured these Chicanitos dressed in native Mexican costumes and decorations like this cactus which the children made themselves.
Students from the Title I Migrant Summer Program are seen here on the float they decorated for the Boulder Pow Wow Parade. The Program’s entry won first prize in a field of more than 200 entries.