UMAS Summer Program Graduates 250
by Paul Mora
After eight short weeks the 1972 UMAS summer program has graduated approximately 250 Chicano freshmen. Students representing nearly every high school in Colorado and from as far away as East Chicago, Indiana, have participated in classes and projects designed to prepare them for a worthwhile, relevant college education. The question arises, how was this accomplished? Each student is aided by a
team of six supportive staff members who work together to assure him the most individualized support of any University program. This support comes from six primary UMAS components: English, Sociology, Study Skills, Math. Counseling and Concentrated Services. . Writing Skills All summer students are enrolled in a section of English 100, Expository Writing. This course teaches the students the basic essay forms and writing
skills needed to communicate ideas coherently. Students find these writing skills helpful in passing Sociology tion in other areas of Sociology while simultaneously explaining the Chicano’s role in society. Course material is taught in a variety of ways, including daily lectures, bi-weekly recitations, occasional films and talks by visiting lecturers. One guest speaker of particular interest to both the .students and the staff was Jose
Angel Guiterriz, founder of the La Raza Unida party. Guiterriz lectured about past, present and future Chicano participation in the American political system, and the benefits to be reaped from this involvement. Usually when a student enters the University of Colorado, he is thrown into classes and ordered to learn as best he can. Since little or no time is spent in explaining the complex ways information is given in the University, the student will spend a great deal of time learning the most efficient methods of gathering and keeping information. Study Skills The UMAS study skills class stressed the importance of efficient studying habits, note-taking, test-preparation, and in short, getting the most information possible out of the academic half of college life. Speed reading is taught as an aide to the student in com-
prehending the tremendous amount of written material he will encounter in classes. In addition, class time is spent encouraging student participation so that they will feel comfortable when called upon to contribute in other University courses. The study skills teaching assistant often uses assignments in other UMAS courses to demonstrate the use of different academic survival skills. Math is New New to the summer program this year is the mathematics class. Since all students are required to complete two years (two two-semester course combinations) of natural science, the math background provided by this course will prove to be invaluable in such courses as Physics, Geology and General Astronomy. The mathematics class will also benefit Chicanos who intend to major in Business, and can even be of help to those ambitious students with an interest in Law. Perhaps the most difficult task during the summer is helping the Chicano students become adjusted to the University environment. The UMAS administrators could not possibly provide the individualized attention 250 Chicano freshmen need without the help of the counseling component. Counselors Aid UMAS counselors, who have themselves faced and overcome the problems with adjusting to the University, provide help in all aspects of freshmen life. Their duties range from keeping track of student attendance in classes
for fall semester housing, financial aid, and registration. The counselor acts as the go between for students and administrators, students and teaching assistants, and even students and other students. These five team members must work with a group of from 15 to 22 students, with each student facing unique problems. But what of the student who is encountering extremely difficult problems at the University? The counselor cannot provide the intensive care for one student at the expense of the other students, and the other team members must concentrate on academic problems. Concentrated Services The solution to this problem lies in the Concentrated Services (CS) Component. Each CS counselor is trained to understand and help the student through the most difficult situations freshmen encounter. CS counselors differ from
other staff members in that all of their time can be devoted to assuring the student that a helping hand is there when he needs it. Several summer supportive components continue their efforts in the fall in much the same manner. Both entering freshmen and continuing freshmen are assigned counselors for their first academic year at C.U. Also, tutors in any subject the student takes are available through the tutorial component. The six primary components comprise the nucleus of the UMAS-EOP supportive program. The Chicano highschool graduate or G.E.D. student with the desire to improve his employment opportunities, broaden his educational background and help Mexican-Americans achieve equality will succeed at the University of Colorado: to this UMAS-EOP is dedicated.