Chicano professors rap
A general concern of some Chicano students at the University is the alienation of Chicano professors from the Chicano students. Some students have expressed the feeling that they are being deprived of an education by Chicano professors. They want to see more Chicano educators at this University. The University has met students demands so far by hiring only seven Chicano educators, who are Professors Artuto Cabrera and Manuel Guerra of the Education department, Albert Ramirez of the Psychology department, George Rivera, Sociology; Anthony Lozano, and Jose De Oniz from the Spanish department; and Salvador Ramirez, Chairman of the Chicano Studies Program. The majority of professors felt that the students are not being deprived in terms of what each professor has to offer Chicano students in their particular fields of study. Prof. Rivera attributed his alienation to personal conflicts with Chicano students in the past. Rivera also attributed the alienation of the professors as being due to their treatment by Chicano students. ‘‘The students take us for granted," he said. “If that’s the way
we’re going to be treated, then we will have to be more selective in the recruitment of more educators." Rivera said he refuses to teach Chicanos "under adverse conditions”. He said he "prefers working with students individually who are willing to learn from him.” “Before recruiting more Chicano educators, the students have to get their stuff together," Rivera said. “Hiring more Chicano professors is not going to solve the problem." Rivera said the EOP program needs professor input, which doesn't exist now with the Chicano professors. "Students should have input, but the professor's input is also valuable and should carry alot of weight. Chicano professors have alot to offer students, but the students haven't tapped them to their fullest potential," he said. Prof. Albert Ramirez of the Psychology department said, "Psychology is one way of relating the discipline of psychology to Chicanos in terms of their demands for more Chicano educators." He feels his major contribution to Chicanos is what he can offer them as a Psychology professor in terms of theory and methods and "psychology that we can use,
modify and improve on so that these methods will be relevant not only to students, but to the entire Chicano population.” Ramirez said he is interested in improving the communication link between students and in knowing and advising Chicano undergraduate psychology majors, and anything relevant to Chicano education. Prof. Lozano of the Spanish department says, “There is a lack of sense of community between students and professors.” He suggested the establishment of a living situation or dorm to bring together Chicano students and students interested in Chicano problems. He says, "A sense of development has to be developed; people have to come together once in a while, and right now there is no focal point where we can meet." One Chicano professor, who wishes to remain unidentified, suggests a joint faculty student committee be established between Chicanos and others as "a means of integrating our thoughts and bridge the gaps that exist in communication now.” Prof. Cabrera, Prof. De Oniz, and Salvador Rmirez were unavailable for comment.