ASUC Senate Overrides Solomon’s Vetos
by Ken Chavez
"Pistol” Pete Solomon, the fastest veto in the west was shot down by ASUC Senate last week. Solomon has vetoed three resolutions submitted by the New Directions Coalition and the Chicano senators. However all three vetoes have since been overridden by ASUC Senate. The ASUC Senate voted 1 7-2-2 to endorse the lettuce boycott resolution only to have it vetoed by Solomon. Solomon stated that he vetoed the boycott resolution because the Senate had not heard the Teamsters point of view. After the Teamster's representative, William Grami discussed the boycott issue at* the next meeting the Senate called for another vote. Solomon’s veto was overridden by a 1 9-1 -0, gaining one positive vote. The Anti-rape bill was also vetoed by Solomon but again the Senate voted to override the Executive veto. Solomon also vetoed a resolution presented by Senator David Garcia. The resolution asked that the ASUC senate send a telegram to the governor of the state of Louisiana, condemning the killing of two Black brothers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Solomon commented that the killings had nothing to do with the University of Colorado and the Senate should not make judgements without proper facts. Garcia said the issue does concern the University of Colorado because the two Blacks killed were students and this can very easily happen on this campus. After the brief discussion Solomon's veto was overridden by a 14-3-1 vote. During the course of the ASUC Senate meeting. Chicano senators requested that ASUC senate begin impeachment proceedings against the controversial
Solomon. Dan Gomez, who drafted and presented the impeachment resolution, said The man (Solomon) does not work with us or makes any attempt to. Solomon is concerned more with keeping the University Administration happy than solving the problems of students. Solomon has also been accused of using the ASUC senate as a political tool for the Republican party. However the Gomez impeachment resolution has been delayed. At least 16 of 21 senators would have to vote for impeachment in order for the resolution to pass. Gomez feels thirteen senators are in favor of impeachment but this is three short of number required. Thus the voting on the resolution has been delayed till December fifth. Gomez believes the extra time will give the others senators more time to think it over the facts and possibly vote for impeachment. Also a Senator in favor of impeachment was absent from the November 28, meeting of senate. Gomez said he is also waiting for more information from the finance board, which is currently investigation Peter Solomon's spending. In other ASUC senate business Jose Ortega was appointed by a 15-1-2 vote, to the University Memorial Center (UMC) board. When questioned by the senate concerning his feelings toward the UMC board, Ortega remarked, “the board does not have enough power to bargain with the administration and something has to be done about the situation.” Ortega was selected above three other candidates and is the only Chicano presently sitting on the UMC board. Ortega was happy with his appointment and said would do his best to help improve UMC conditions.