‘Barrio’ Bishop to visit Monday
"Barrio" Bishop Patrick Flores, the nation’s only Chicano bishop, and spiritual leader of more than eight million Chicano Catholics, is scheduled to visit the University on Oct. 30, 1972. His visit and a Chicano Awareness Day are sponsored by the Newman Center. Bishop Flores will visit sociology in the morning, meet with the University community at large at noon and lunch with administrators, faculty and staff. During the evening. Bishop Flores will participate in a GALA of exhibits, Teatro, Music, Dance and refreshments, concluding with the celebration of a Mariachi Mass. All events are free and open to the public. The 42-year-old bishop, a native of Texas, who experienced discrimination first-hand in his days as a migrant worker, is outspoken in his efforts on behalf of the farm workers, the unions, and the Chicano unity movement. He preaches political and spiritual involvement and practices it with a quiet. Bishop Flores spent two weeks last summer visiting migrant farm camps in Idaho, living with workers, seeking ways to improve their lot. "There is no future here, though," the bishop says, encouraging families to drop out of the migrant stream and establish permanent ties, educate their children and find jobs that within three years will bring them more financial gain than 20 years of stoop labor. His tie with the farm workers is a “blood
one." “When I see them suffer, I suffer also." This spring Bishop Flores issued a call for an international boycott of lettuce, urging Texans and particularly Catholic institutions not to buy lettuce “unless it has the farmworkers eagle on the box.” He serves as chairman of the Texas Avisory Committee of the US Civil Rights Commission and unveiled reports recently dealing with discrimination against Chicanos in school districts throughout the southwest. Bishop Flores’ pet project for several months came into existence this month with the opening of the Mexican-American Cultural Center at Assumption Seminary, where barrio residents will be given leadership and problem - solving techniques training and where priests and lay leaders will be given language training with an insight into the cultural, philosophical and theological thinking of the people they will work with. Bishop Flores, is presently Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of San Antonio, Texas. He was one of 21 consultants from the Catholic Church throughout the world who met in Rome last July to draft a landmark statement on behalf of the Pontifical Commission on Justice and Peace, entitled: “Everyone is my Brother Racialism, Discrimination and Integration.”