Crusade charges trial by pressBy John L. EspinosaThe Chicanos involved in the Saint Patrick's Day Massacre at the Crusade for Justice have been found guilty and the Denver Police have been absolved of all wrongdoings in a trial by press at the hands of the Rocky Mountain News’ reporter Richard O’Reilly. In an article printed in the April Fools' Day edition of the News, O’Reilly reported that their investigation failed to substantiate claims by Chicanos that police were at fault in the shootout. He said, “...it appears that the police exercised restraint, that unique precautions were taken to protect the rights of those involved....” The incident, which left Luis “Junior" Martinez dead and 16 persons injured, has been the subject of wide media coverage, most of which has been heavily onesided in favor of the police. Little effort has been made to get the Chicano version of the tragic event. Many Chicano witnesses have refused to talk to the press because of reporters like O’Reilly who continue to deceive them. According to witnesses, O'Reilly approached them and said he wanted to print their version of what happened. He was given the information by one of the witnesses but he has failed to report it as of yet. Instead he took the information and used it to substantiate Pafolman Stephen Snyder's story. Snyder shot Martinez and was allegedly wounded by him. The Chicanos have maintained from the beginning that Martinez was not the person the police had attempted to arrest for jaywalking, but for 12 days it was the police’s official version that he was. It was only after the Chicanos insisted that it was not, that Snyder gave his current version. In O’Reilly’s story, he said the Chicano version enforced Snyder's account rather than vice versa. It is because of this misuse by the press that Chicano witnesses choose not to give the press information. Yet there are glaring contradictions in the police story which have been ignored by the media in their attempt to “get at the truth.” There are also some unanswered questions which have been reported by the slightly more responsible Denver Post which must also be answered. Before the truth is uncovered, the following questions will have to be answered: What happened to the 100 to 200 guns which police first said they found the count is now down to around 30 What happened to the M16 which was reported found and pictured in the News, if one was used and not by the Chicanos, then by whom If the police are sure the explosion was caused by dynamite, why did they refuse to permit an independent investigator inspect the damaged building before they had it torn down Why is it that those Chicanos who were most severely beaten by police are the ones facing felony charges The Post has reported the following interesting questions raised by Chicanos: When and how was Marinez shot and did the fatal wound come from the front or back If there was sniper fire from Chicanos in the apartments, why haven't officials mentioned bullet holes in any of the police cruisers If Snyder wasn't able to make statements about the shooting for more than a week because of face wounds, how was he able that night to inform Policewoman Carol Hogue shortly after being shot that he had taken a weapon from Martinez and had been wounded in the process And, perhaps most important to Chicanos involved why have police accounts of the incident changed so often There are many other interesting aspects to the case. The News has implied that the shootout could have possibly been set up by Chicanos On the other hand, Ernesto Vigil, a witness told the Post that 15 minutes before the encounter began, some girls returned to the party and reported that there were police all over the place. "Within 45 seconds after Officer Hogue called for help there were police everywhere,” Vigil said. Although police have disputed Chicanos’ claim that Martinez was shot in the back, they have not come forward with evidence to counter pictures which Rodolfo “Corky” Gonzales has shown to reporters. The pictures are of Martinez’ body and show two small entry wounds about three inches apart on the back and large ragged holes on the chest. The local media, particularly the News, have taken great pains to discredit Martinez. They have dug into his past police records and have not only reported his convictions, but also his arrests which resulted in no charges. Could the police involved in the beatings stand the same test Why has there been no effort to find out if they have been previously charged with brutality It is clear that the Chicano community is not convinced that an attempt has been made to get at the truth. The Crusade has reported letters of inquiry and support from across the nation. Also, there have been offers of financial assistance from every segment of the Chicano community. Chicanos have vowed to continue their struggle against a racist society which permits the murder of their youth see related letter in Cartas section. For a more complete account of the events surrounding this incident, read El Gallo, available in UMC.