Brando rejects Oscar-cites Indian plightby Diana ArchuletaThe sentimental value of Hollywood’s famed Academy Awards suffered a striking blow from award winner Marlon Brando. During the telecast, an Indian woman, Sacheen Littlefeather, spoke in Marlon Brando’s absence, making the message even more astonishing to the nationwide audience. Mr. Brando did not accept the award for best actor of the year for his role in "The Godfather” due to his awareness and belief in the American Indian Movement. The Indian woman, Sacheen Littlefeather, stated that Mr. Brando could not ac-cept the award because film oppressed the Indians. She added that Mr. Brando's absence was caused by his intentions of flying to Wounded Knee to join the Indian cause in South Dakota that same night. I am sure all of us realize this by now, but several, in fact, the only publicized comments I have heard about this situation are so negative and vague that 1 would like to free my ambiguous mind of a few questions. A few examples are as astonishing as Marlon Brando’s refusal of the award. The next morning, the Santa Anna Register contained an article- about the awards on the front page in which over half was so humbly dedicated to Mr. Brando's response. After informing readers of the event in a rather non-biased manner, the article blew it by quoting a few remarks made by other actors at the presentations. Clint Eastward hoped to give away an award "without having to recognize all the cowboys who didn't get parts in John Ford westerns.” I fail to understand the relevance of that statement. How can unsuccessful cowboys suffer the loss of something they have never had? Also, Raquel Welchhoped to give away an award without having to worry about "some cause.” I may be misled by my thoughts, but is she implying that she has forgotten her maiden name? To add to the whole situation, the article referred to the Indian woman, Sacheen Littlefeather, who spoke that night as a "girl." Am I being overly defensive? Okay. The next afternoon I tuned into Hollywood’s most popular radio station! (Excuse me, Hollywood, for my reluctance to recall the name of that station.) Anyway, half of the precious five minute news time was devoted to this event. Again the comments distorted Mr. Brando’s purpose. The news announcer came on saying that Rock Hudson commented on Marlon Brando's "disrespectful action." He mentioned that Jane Fonda had accepted her award while actively concerned with the Vietnam war. How could anyone publicly mention something so ignorant? I have yet to see a flick about another country engaged in war and mercilessly massacred its own civilians ... or a war flick implying that natives of a foreign country are always “savage” upon the white man who intends to cross the desert and put up a fence. The radio announcer further quoted Rock Hudson on statements about how the awards are hard-earned and very special; that Marlon Brando "showed no gratitude." Mr. Rock doesn’t seem very together; when a person realizes where something is actually coming from, any feelings are subject to change. “The Godfather" may have been a little deeper than a role for Marlon Brando accept an award which symbolizes injustice? Surely most of us share the joy of success that Clint Eastwood, Raquel Welch, Jane Fonda, Rock Hudson, and Marlon Brando have achieved. We know joy is a beautiful feeling to share, and success; per se, unselfish success can be beautiful to everyone. If more people would believe in "some cause" other than their own, we could all share the beauty of unity.