What of ‘high-risk ' students?
Can you remember a time when the founding fathers of the Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) put it all on the line to assure the admittance of those who have been labeled "high-risk” students? The founders realized that most minority-group high school students are not qualified in the eyes of high school counselors or University administrators to attend such a prestigious institution as the University of Colorado. To rectify this situation, the founders wrested a commitment from the University administrators to waive normal admittance requirements so that minority students could attend CU. Yet the hard-fought battle the EOP founders waged may have all been in vain if a rumored change from a high-risk student priority to a low-risk student priority is allowed to occur. Although UMAS-EOP spokesman have denied the change, certain other EOP’s are supposedly thinking of recruiting low-risk students exclusively. The low-risk minority student is the Chicano from the nice neighborhood who was given a chance to succeed and did so. The low-risk student didn't have to worry about survival as do our gente in the barrios and ghettoes. High-risk recruits, on the other hand, were never encouraged to continue their educations, and were told to join the Armed Forces or to attend vocational schools. These are the students who were never given a fair shake until the EOP founders were able to secure their admittance into CU. The 300 Chicanos who entered CU in the summer of 1969 were considered high-risk students, yet with the help of UMAS-EOP supportive services and with the knowledge that other ‘probable failures’ were succeeding, most of them did make it. I was a high risk student, as were most of the Chicanos I know who are still attending CU. Even after four years of involvement in the movement, most of the high-risk students are still here. When students did drop-out, the UMAS-EOP administrators - saw each drop-out as a failure on the part of the supportive services, and not as some inherent inferiority of the students. What might motivate EOP administrators to turn their backs on high-risk students? Funds for minority-oriented projects will be continually harder to secure from the federal government in the foreseeable future. Project administrators are looking ahead to a time when private foundations and other charitable institutions will be the sole funding source for many projects. The foundations will give funding priority to those programs showing the most success, which in the case of educational programs will be the program shewing the highest ratio of graduates to entrees. What better way is there to assure success in the educational programs than to admit those high school students who are most likely to succeed in college? By going this route, program administrators assure their continued employment as long as the man deems them necessary. Yet why have supportive services if the students beipg admitted have no need for special help and aid? The end result of a switch from high-risk to low-risk entrees is a gradual decline in the services needed by students until token programs are the order of the day. What of you, my friend? Were you ever a high-risk student? If so, you have a say in this matter.
