cartas-cartas-cartas-cartas-cartas -Mateski (again) Editor: Plans by some dissatisfied ASUC Senators to recall George Pettit from the Finance Board reek of “sour grapes." The Senators had no complaints or thought of removing Pettit when he was voting “their” way. Now that Paul Boetcher blew his credibility on campus, his supporters decided that if "you don’t play it my way, I’m going to play the game with my own toys. (If the game is chess, the toys are pawns.) It would seem that those people are just pissed off because they didn’t get the budget they wanted. (30% increase) Recall plans could only hurt student representation since ASUC has so little power now. However, I would hope that the Finance Board will not support this plan, mainly because they trusted Boetcher once before, and I don’t think they’re stupid enough to trust him again. Dennis Mateski April 11, 1973 COPIRG COPIRG (Colorado Public Interest Research Group) is pleased to announce that it received approximately 2000 signatures in its first week of petitioning on the CU Boulder campus. COPIRG hopes to get a majority of students' signatures, the number needed being about 10,000. COPIRG is a non-profit, non-partisan consumer and minority action group dedicated to representing the public’s interests. If approved by the board of regents, COPIRG would be financed by a voluntarily refundable student fee, and would hire lawyers, scientists, etc. to represent the public and do research on various problems related to consumer, minority and environmental affairs. COPIRG’s first project, using volunteer help, is investigating alleged malpractices of variousrental referral agencies in the Denver-Boulder area. We hope to have results soon. COPIRG needs help with petitioning. People interested can come to COPIRG’s booth in the UMC loggia or call any of the following numbers: University extension 8684, 443-4095, 447-0115, or 4497163. COPIRG April 15, 1973 Mental health Many of our brothers and sisters are mentally retarded, and their human potential is being wasted. If for no other reason, they are oppressed because we do not believe in them. Seventy-five to eighty-five percent of the retarded population can become at least partially self-supporting; they, too, have hopes and energy to create new possibilities for themselves and our world. W. can join with them to create an alternative environment that is harmonious with the earth and its people. Alternatives for the physical and social environment will be the theme of Earth Week at the University of Colorado Boulder campus, from April 23-28. A forum on alternative environments for the mentally retarded will be one of many activities throughout the week that will focus on the human environment. On Tuesday, April 24, al 7:00 p.m. in Chemistry Building 140, a group of panelists will participate in a dialogue of new ideas and proposed alternatives for the retarded community. The topics for discussion will include plans for an ecologically designed communal farm, small group housing in the cities, business enterprises, and other alternatives to meet the needs and human potentials of retarded people. Panel members will include: Al Bickford, executive director of Cheyenne Village in Colo. Springs; Tom Carroll, executive director of the Colorado Association for Retarded Children; Larry Coffee, Northwestern Dental School in Chicago; Gil Jackson,resident psychologist at Laradon Hall Training Center in Denver; Dr. Kayo Sunada, director of Ridge State Home and Training School. Because the way that we treat each other is much like the way that we treat the earth, and because our retarded brothers and sisters are beautiful people, the C.U. Environmental Communications Center urges you to participate in this very important event. Duane Homes