Teamsters lie!

The lettuce boycott is not dead, but supporters of the United Farm Workers of America 
hope the rumors about the end of the boycott are. Saturday more than 100 people 
marched thru the streets of Boulder to quash the erroneous report. The march which 
began at Farrand Field was sponsored by the Farm Labor Task Force and was 
supported by UMAS, Young Socialist's Alliance, Woman’s Liberation Coalition and the 
New American Movement. The marchers went thru the center of the city and then 
ended the demonstration at the Safeway store at 28th and Arapahoe. Before the march 
began, Richard Longoria, Director of the UFWA Boycott Committee in Denver explained 
the recent developments to the group. “To begin with,” Longoria said, “Teamster 
representatives at the negotiations jumped the gun and released news of the settlement' 
before Teamster President Frank Fitzsimmons had signed the agreement.” Longoria 
called the early release of news of a settlement “a device to fool the UFWA’s 
supporters. Many people believed the lettuce, grape and Safeway boycotts have ended, 
when in fact Fitzsimmons has still not signed the agreement.”

Basically, the unsigned agreement calls for a withdrawal of Teamsters forces from the 
agricultural fields where the UFWA first began organizing farmworkers. All contracts 
between the Teamsters and the growers regarding grape pickers would become 
“worthless scraps of paper." However, Teamster contracts regarding lettuce pickers 
would remain in effect until 1975, when the contracts expire. The agreement stipulates 
that the Teamsters would make no attempts to renew lettuce contracts. The UFWA has 
long fought for a ban of pesticides in the fields, while the Teamsters have not. “It will be 
up to the individual consumer whether or not he eats Teamster lettuce," Longoria said. 
Longoria noted that the Teamsters are notorious for violating agreements regarding the 
farmworkers. “Why should wc think the Teamsters will change now?” Longoria asked. 
After Longoria’s speech, the marchers began the long truck to the Safeway store. A 
picket line was begun at the Safeway store, and Farm labor Task Force representatives 
said the picket lines would be held regularly every Saturday until the struggle is really 
over.

[Photo Caption]

300 Chicano students march through the University Memorial Center on their way to 
Regents to protest the Financial Aid problems.

