Victory for Farah StrikersChicano employees of the Farah Manufacturing Company in Texas and New Mexico have won union representation and entry to the AFL-CIO Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. This victory came as a result of federal action taken against the Farah company, known for its large production of men’s pants. However, workers continue to strike for improved benefits from Farah. The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has charged the Farah company with violating federal laws by discharging employees and changing work rules at its plant, thus interfering with the employees joining of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers union. Nearly 3,000 of Farah’s original 9,500 workers walked out last year, and a national boycott of the company’s products followed. The workers, with no previous union representation, are complaining of low wages, no job security, impossible production quotas, unfair treatment of women, and the lack of real worker benefits. Although the workers have joined the Amalgamated Clothing Workers, they are still on strike against the Farah Co. William F. Farah, the owner, believes in success of non-union enterprise and refuses to negotiate with the workers. However, as a result of the federal action, the company was ordered to reinstate 19 Chicano employees and pay them back earnings from the time of their discharge plus 6% interest.Farah was also ordered not to continue its practice of very closely watching and following employees while on-the-job or discriminating against them for violating the slightest rules or for minor mistakes. The order additionally says that Farah is to avoid restriction of employees’ personal conversations while on-the-job, interrogation of employees about union activities, and interfering unlawfully with employee’s union activities. Some discharges date back to 1969 and 1970. The NLRB also ordered Farah not to fire or discriminate against any employee joining or supporting the Clothing Workers or any other union. Farah is not to prohibit employees from engaging in union solicitation while on-the-job in departments other than their own. Although Farah’s largest plant is in El Paso, where 94% of its workers are Chicanos and the majority of them are women, there are also plants at San Antonio, Victoria, Tex., Albuquerque and Los Cruces, N.M., which were also involved in the dispute. Farah strike supporters are concerned with more than just the Farah strike; they are also stressing the larger problem of industry locating in areas where labor is cheap, and the people are open to exploitation. The NLRB order to Farah is binding unless it is overturned in Federal Appeals Court. At this time, Farah had not appealed, but the move was expected.