Wednesday vote to decide dorm lettuce issue

Results from the dorm referendum on whether or not head lettuce will once again be 
served in dormitory cafeterias were not yet available when El Diario went to press. The 
referendum was initiated after several Anglo students complained about having to eat 
leaf lettuce. The University’s decision to stop buying head lettuce last spring was 
greeted with mixed feelings. Members of Farm Labor Task Force (FLTF), ASUC and 
others who helped with the campaign which garnered 2200 signatures in favor of 
boycotting lettuce were elated. They had spent six months in their efforts, hassling with 
the University Housing Department to get permission to enter the dorms, interruptions at 
Christmas vacation and ASUC elections. But it only took them two weeks of door-to-
door campaigning to get the signatures. At that time Vice President for Student and 
Minority Affairs James Corbridge said opponents of the boycott would have to show 
similar support before lettuce would be brought back to campus. But he repeatedly 
refused to state this commitment in writing. About two weeks ago, the Student Advisory 
Council (SAC) decided to conduct a referendum election in response to some 
complaints about the absence of head lettuce in the dormitory food services. The 
referendum was scheduled for Oct. 16. Members of Farm Labor Task Force did not find out until Oct. 12. 
The choices on the ballots were whether students wanted to continue the boycott of all head lettuce, or if they 
wanted head lettuce and alternatives (such as leaf and bib lettuce). But other people did 
not think it was fair. They had worked six months to get lettuce off campus and their 
efforts were going to be subverted in four days. The SAC then agreed to postpone the 
referendum in order for both sides to explain the issue to dorm residents. But there was 
a misunderstanding. FLTF members thought they had two weeks to campaign but found 
out last Thursday that the referendum would be held this Tuesday. They launched an intensive dorm 
presentation series and showed films and distributed information in the UMC Loggia. Amid accusations that the 
“other side" was not represented at the dorm presentations, the FLTF repeatedly called 
for open debates. But no one showed up. SAC member John Geyer, who is one of the 
referendum initiators, said his committee is “not as well organized as the Task Force." 
He also said he had several tests and did not have time to dehate By chance, UFWA 
Vice President Philip Veracruz was on campus Monday. He and UFWA Denver Boycott 
Director Richard Longoria spoke to a crowd at Willard Hall that afternoon. The rally was planned to be a 
discussion session, but, again, no one from the opposition showed up. Longoria called 
the referendum "one of the most selfish things I've heard of in my life. By voting against 
the referendum, we’re challenging people to go beyond themselves. “I'm convinced that the truest act of courage, 
the strongest act of manliness is to sacrifice ourselves for others in a totally nonviolent struggle for justice. 
To be a man is to suffer for others. God help us be men." Cesar Chavez.
