UFW efforts now turned toward Boycotts

The United Farm Workers' strikes that crippled harvests of grapes and lettuce in 
Colorado, Arizona and California were ended by union leader Cesar Chavez after two 
strikers were killed in California's San Joaquin Valley. Richard Longoria, UFW boycott 
director in Denver said the Union’s efforts will now be directed to the head lettuce and 
grape boycotts in the cities. Strikers Nagi Mohsin Daifullah and Juan De la Cruz were 
killed in mid-August after the farm workers had been striking nearly five months and had 
suffered brutalities at the hands of Teamsters Union goons and local police. More than 
10,000 workers had joined the strike; 5,000 had been arrested and hundreds had been 
hospitalized before Chavez called off the picketlines to prevent further bloodshed. 
Daifullah was beaten to death by Kern County Sheriff s deputy Gilbert Cooper. 
Witnesses said Cooper struck the Arab worker with a large flashlight and dragged him 
50 feet down the sidewalk. The Sheriffs report said Daifullah was drunk and fell and hit 
his head while running from Cooper. De la Cruz was shot twice in the chest by 
strikebreakers as he was directing cars around a picketline near Delano, witnesses 
said. The funerals for the slain workers drew an estimated 8,000 mourners to Delano. 
After the deaths, Chavez announced he was ending the active picketing of the 
vineyards and sending hundreds of strikers to the cities to work on the boycotts of 
lettuce and grapes. The only active strikes now being worked are the strikes of Gallo 
and Franzia Brothers wineries in the northern San Joaquin Valley. Already 571 strikers 
have joined the boycott nationwide and 500 more are preparing to leave California before the 
end of the month. The Luis Garcia and Jesus Valderrama families and Koro Korikawa a 
striker from Guam have joined the Denver boycott Longoria said. They plan to remain in 
Denver until the Union reclaims its contracts in the lettuce and grape industries. The 
boycott is increasing in strength as the Union’s strongest opponents, the Teamsters, 
have repudiated 30 contracts signed with Delano grape growers this summer. Since 
mid-summer the Teamsters and the AFL-CIO have negotiated the labor dispute. Labor 
experts are speculating that the Teamsters are planning to withdraw entirely from 
agriculture in exchange for readmittance to the AFL-CIO. With the Teamsters on the
sidelines, the growers are highly vulnerable to both the strike and the boycott. Longoria 
said the Denver Safeways are selling grapes at 29 cents a pound. This figures to $6.38 
a lug (22 pound box). The growers have admitted they need at least $7.50 to $8.50 a 
lug to break even. Longoria says the boycott has driven the price down so far that the 
few grapes that are being sold are going at a loss to the growers. Denver has been 
selected as a test area for a grape promotion campaign by the industry. Both Safeway 
and Delfarm are advertising grapes. They are trying to get consumers to buy grapes 
even though the growers are taking a loss, Longoria said. Perhaps they feel they can 
break down shoppers’ support by giving grapes away, he said. With the Teamsters 
fading from the picture, the grape growers are turning to other long-time opponents of the 
farm workers in an effort to move their scab produce. Pancho Botello, a Lamont, California, 
organizer, reported he has seen Coors trucks loaded with Guiamarra grapes leaving the packing sheds. 
The UFW has survived the most brutal attack on labor in recent history and now the fledgling 
union is planning its Constitutional Convention, to be held in Fresno on Sept. 21, 22 and 
23. The Union is inviting 500 delegates and is anticipating over 2,000 observers. The 
business of the convention will be to adopt a constitution and elect officers. Longoria said he and 
Jesus Valderrama will be attending the convention. Longoria will represent the Colorado boycott and 
Valderrama will represent his ranch committee from Roberts Farm Inc. he is on strike at. 
Victor Gonzales of the Farm Labor Task Force at the University told El Diario he and 
Antonio Campos are organizing picketlines at local Safeway stores again. The FLTF is 
located in UMC 186 and is seeking volunteers to help with the picketlines.

