Report from Wounded KneeBy Skip BallEditor's note: Skip Ball just returned from Wounded Knee last week. Due to lack of space much in the way of background had to be left out but can be found in his articles in the Militant. At various times the government has tried to starve out the occupants of Wounded Knee by trying to stop the flow of food, fuel, electricity and communication into the area. When things get tense they try to cut off the truth to stop and confuse the international support that has developed for Wounded Knee. Thus most of the press reports have misrepresented the situation and the recent barrage of statements by both US and local tribal politicians are simply untrue. First of all, there is considerable local support on the Pine Ridge reservation for Wounded Knee. The much quoted official tribal chairman, Richard “Dickey” Wilson has never made good on his threats to amass anyone, let alone “900" or “5,000” Sioux to march against Wounded Knee. On the other hand, the mass based Oglala Sioux Civil Rights Organization has never had less than 250 people at its demonstrations and often had 900 people to its meetings. The second action of this group was to march into Wounded Knee, which they continue to hold. AIM was invited in by thisgroup to help their local | struggle. The action has the support of six of the reservation’s eight districts and their District Chairmen are the leaders who declared the Pine Reservation and independent sovereign nation, with Wounded Knee as a state in that nation. The official tribal vice-chairman, who got more than twice the number of votes Wilson got in the last election, supports Wounded Knee. There have been many other falsifications. There are 4-500 people in Wounded Knee. The large influx of people when the FBI roadblocks were taken down was, as was the first move into Wounded Knee, largely by people from the reservation. Although the government tries to keep food out, except at certain times when it is trying to look kind, food comes in regularly over the hills from nearby Porcupine —a local center of outside support. Although the government likes to claim that the occupiers are mostly men, and offered women and children a chance to leave without facing arrest or charges, the women and the children not sharing the government’s sex and age prejudice, elected to stay and fight. They are also about two thirds of the occupying force. The influx of guns the government used as a pretext to reestablish its roadblocks was not primarily due to the supporters bringing in guns but white ranchers. These self styled vigilantes tried to bring guns through AIM security checkpoints and were disarmed. Four men who claimed to be “postal inspectors” also donated unwillingly the four .38 caliber pistols they were carrying when captured at Wounded Knee. The agents also had finger printing equipment on them, “and they sure as hell weren’t defending any mail boxes,” Dennis Banks said. Another man who said he had a message for Dennis Banks, was sent out of town after his 357 magnum gun was taken from him. On Sunday, Mar. 11 the FBI opened fire on an Indian security van and the assailant, an FBI agent, was wounded for his belligerence. Indian security is very well organized, with a Vietnam Veteran heading it up. All roads into the area are patrolled as are the surrounding hills. But the Indians do not claim their arms will or can result in a military victory. There is no romantic adventurism involved. They have an armed encampment merely to keep the cops from moving in with clubs and dogs, to keep white ranchers from running their blockades and to impress upon the government their seriousness. The best way to aid the struggle is to get out the truth. The truth about-local support,the demands, the unpopularity of Wilson and the fact that most of Wounded Knee’s occupiers are Oglala Sioux, including AIM leader Russel Means, and the Indians there from all over North America are invited guests because the struggle against the BIA and the corrupt tribal council of Dickey Wilson is their struggle too. The demands, which have been endorsed at meetings of six of the eighth districts, are the removal of Wilson, his council and the tribal constitution and the replacing of this system withone the people themselves choose in an open and democratically run convention. Further they are demanding the removal of federal troops and guns from the reservation, dismantling the tribal police, replacement of the BIA officials now in Pine Ridge and a congressional investigation into the BIA and the broken US Indian treaties. And, of course national recognition of the Oglala Sioux Nation. The government has so far refused to discuss the political issues.