‘Si se puede!’
Our brothers in the fields need our help! The farmworkers, most of whom are Chicanos, are bravely struggling for their right to collective bargaining through their union, the United Farm Workers. We can help the campesinos by joining them in their boycotts against head lettuce and Safeway food stores. The time is now, if the farmworkers lose this battle, it is likely they will also lose their union. Not only is the UFW engaged in two major boycotts, they are being forced to fight on several other fronts with the powerful Teamsters Union and various farm owner organizations which are pushing for restrictive farm labor legislation in a number of States (including Colorado). The Teamsters are attempting to represent farmworkers, but they do not. They were not chosen by the farmworkers; their contracts, though they mimic UFW contracts, are not designed to raise the fieldworkers from their plight; and they have continually harassed the UFW’s organizing efforts. On December 29, 1972, the California Supreme Court ruled that the UFW does not represent farmworkers. The high court also found that the Teamsters and the growers “coerced and harassed farmworkers into joining teamsters.” The court further ruled that the lettuce contracts' tight was not a jurisdictional dispute as Teamsters, Safeway and the growers claim. Legislative attempts to undermine the efforts of the UFW are not a new approach. Last year, House Bill 1439 was being groomed by Colorado agriculture interest groups. Although the bill died an early death, it is certain it will be resurrected during the current legislative session. HB 1439, like many other anti-UFW proposals, called for the elimination of the secondary boycott, a primary bargaining tool of the UFW. Bills of this sort have been passed in a number of states including Arizona. The odds against the UFW in their fight with the powerful growers. Teamsters and legislators (mostly Republican) closely resembles the original odds the single farmworker had with the greedy grower. It was through the union that the farmworkers gained strength. It is this same solidarity, a union of farmworkers and consumers which will give UFW sling the stone which will fell the powerful giant. Let us take some time to join our brothers on the picket lines at Safeway. Let it be Chicanos who take the leadership role; if we turn our backs on our brothers in the fields, then we have turned our backs on all of our Raza. We have many beautiful Anglo brothers on our picket lines, but how long will they support us, if we do not support our own people. Remember a few years ago when the grape strike was just beginning, Cesar Chavez said "Sal, si puedes!" Today he and his union have another slogan, "Si se puede!" Since those early days, Chicanos have won victory after victory in schools, political, arenas barrios etc., but let us not forget, it was the farmworkers who first showed us "Si se Puede!!" » Que viva la causa!!.
