Vejito remembers Pancho Villa

by Leonard Maestas

This poor man called and the lord heard, and saved him out of all his troubles. The Lord is dose to the brokenhearted, and rescues those whose spirit is crushed. PSALM 34 6 18 You may have noticed a sign in the UMAS office that reads: “Senor Francisco Rosales, in the Boulder Manor Nursing Home Room 401 is lonely. He speaks no English. Come visit him on Baseline." If you have noticed and just ignored it, look again, especially at the word “lonely" then ask yourself: What is loneliness? Have I ever really been lonely? If you want answers to these questions you must visit Senor Rosales who is indeed lonely. Not only will you learn the real meaning of loneliness, you will also gain an educational as well as emotional experience. Substitute companionship As I walked the hallways of the Nursing home towards the room of Senor Rosales. I noticed an old woman sitting on a rocking chair with a toy doll in her arms. I thought to myself how ridiculous she looked as she tried to put the doll to sleep. Little did I know that the doll was a substitute for human companionship. I learned that this substitute relieved at least some of her loneliness. When I arrived at room 401. Senor Rosales was sitting on a

wheelchair next to his bed. After I had introduced myself. I could see a gleam in his eyes and a smile as he asked me to sit down. Can’t remember It seems that Senor Rosales has chosen to forget as much of the past as possible including his age. "I don’t remember how old 1 am. I just can’t remember,’’ Rosales said. I then asked him to at least guess but he insisted that he didn't know. Holding back his emotions, he began to explain as much as he could about his native Mexico. "I was born in Chihuahua. Mexico and came to the U.S.after my wife died in Ciudad Juarez. I came to the U.S. and became an American citizen to take advantage of the benefits," Rosales said. Worked in mines Asked what kind of work he did, Senor Rosales, holding a kleenex tissue in his wrinkled hand and wiping his eyes said: “I used to work in the mines. The mines made me the sick man I am today." Senor Rosales could not remember what kind of mines he worked and tried to explain that fire burned up above and that soot filled the mine. I asked him if they were coal mines and he agreed. “The jobs in the mines were so hard that nobody wanted to do the work." Rosales said. “I used to come out sweating after crawling on my hands and knees all day." Again Senor Rosales blamed his sickness on the mines.

Americans or mexicans The conversation then switched over to the days of Francisco "Pancho” Villa and the revolution. Rosales said, “but I do remember one time when 1 was sitting close to a street in Ciudad Juarez when Francisco Villa came riding in with all his men.” Rosales went on to say that Villa asked the men that were standing around to choose whether they wanted to be Americans or Mexicans. Villa then told those that wanted to be Americans to stand on one side and those that wanted to be Mexicans, to stand on the other. Rosales continued by saying that Villa was upset and furious because of those who chose to be Americans, and that Villa had told them. "‘I should put you up against the wall and shoot you.’’’ “A lot of people said he [Villa] was a bad man but actually he was a very good man." Rosales said. “The people respected him very much." Don’t leave After a lengthy conversation, and as the hour grew late. I told Senor Rosales that I had to leave. I could tell by the lonely look in his eyes that he didn't want me to leave just then. My visit ended with Senor Francisco Rosales as he said. “When you want to visit me again you’re very welcome and let me say that you have a friend; whenever you want, you know you have a friend.”

image: darkened face of Senor Francisco Rosales 