NAIO referendum on ballot
Jheri Davis wants more Native Americans to attend the University. Today and tomorrow, students will vote on a referendum which will determine whether Davis gets what he wants. referendum calls for asl increase in students fees per semester. The money will go to the Native American Indian Organization to assist incoming Indian students. Sonny Emerson, ASUC vice president, is supporting the proposal. He says he wants more Indians on campus because, “The Indians, like the Chicanos, Blacks and other minorities add to my education.” They give the University a wider scope Emerson says. Recently some University Indians published a letter in the Colorado Daily denouncing NAIO. They said it does not represent them. One of the main criticisms is that Indians make up a small portion of the organization. Emerson, whose wife is chairman of the scholarship committee, says NAIO is a multicultural organization established to work for the benefit of Indians. “It is not a club,” Davis emphasized, “it is an organization that works for the benefit of Indians here and throughout the United States.” Davis told El Diario the grants given from the student fees referendum would be administered by an all Indian committee. The committee would have 11 members, with any other Indians sitting in as non-voting members. The committee members would be elected from the NAIO, he said.
Four years ago, University students passed a similar referendum asking for a $5 increase in student fees to help minorities with financial aid. Davis and Emerson say the Indians get almost none of this money. Mark Heffron, director of financial aid, said this is because the Indian students have sources not available to other students. These include Bureau of Indian Affairs grants and tribal grants. Davis says all Indians are not eligible for BIA grants and it is not fair to tap individual tribes for monies. Davis quoted Vernon Bellecourt of the American Indian Movement as saying, “The BIA gets 1 billion dollars for Indians, 80 percent of this goes to the bureaucracy. If the money went to every Indian individually, we would receive $4,400 each.” When students passed the minority fee referendum four years ago, the Board of Regents changed the wording to include all “disadvantaged students.” Davis and Emerson say this won’t happen to this referendum. “We’ll take them to court,” each say. According to Emerson, 27 percent of the monies raised from the $5 student fee referendum go to disadvantaged Whites. Heffron said this is untrue. “They (Whites) get 23.9 percent of the awards, but only 6.6 percent of the actual money,” he said. Only .7 percent goes to Indians, he added. Ted Holappa, director of the American Indian EOP, said his students receive a total of $140,000 in grants from various sources. He is satisfied with the EOP program and said it compares favorably with other programs in the country. When asked about the referendum, Holappa said he supported it if it would bring additional funds in for Indians. Emerson said the present Indian EOP component is a “failure.” The administrators are doing the best they can with the present funding, but not as well as the program is capable of doing. It is generally agreed the Indians at the University suffer from a high drop out rate. Emerson cites poor supportive services, which NAIO plans to improve. We not only want to bring Indians here, but we want to keep them, he said. If NAIO is able to get the referendum passed, their fight will have only begun. They will have to fight Regents to retain control of their funds even if Regents approves the fee hike.
