Strike returns to Delano

(Editor’s note: The United Farm Workers Union has now begun striking against grape 
growers in the UFWU stronghold in Delano, California, where it all began. John 
Espinosa has been working with the UFWU and has sent El Diario this report on the 
striking workers’ efforts.) Delano, California As negotiations broke off with 29 Delano 
area grape growers, 2,000 strikers took to the picket line as “La Huelga” came home to 
the birthplace of the United Farm Workers’ struggle. “Brothers and sisters, the work 
before you is very clear. We shall bring out our Huelga flags which are the symbol of 
justice for farm workers all over this country, and we shall go to it,” Cesar Chavez, 
director of the Union told the more than 1,000 workers and supporters who gathered to 
hear the anticipated announcement after negotiations ended July 29. Chavez said the 
“negotiations, which had gone around-the-clock for several days, ended when the 
growers refused to give in to any of the Union's new demands and they were “even 
trying to take away many of the things we won in 1970.” “The demands they made of us 
show they did not come to negotiate in good faith,” he said. He suggested the growers 
attended the meetings with the Union with “an ace up their sleeves.” He said he thought 
the growers were trying to break off talks so they could say, “the farm' workers called off 
negotiations, that’s why we had to sign with the Teamsters.” A statement prepared by Harry Keaton, 
a Los Angeles attorney representing the growers, blamed the farm workers for the 
negotiations' failure. Their statement said “the UFW demanded to have absolute control 
and domination over who was going to work in the grape industry.” They said the UFW 
refused to agree to allow growers to hire their regular seniority work force because 
many of these workers had shown a preference for the Teamsters Union.” A Union 
official said the growers really wanted to retain the nucleus of Teamster organizers and 
contractors who have caused many problems for the Union. The growers assured the 
press they entered the talks with the intention to reach an agreement with the Union “so 
as to bring peace to the troubled grape industry.”

According to Union negotiators, one of the “peace proposals” which brought the most 
opposition was a demand by the growers that the boycott of grapes be called off 
including the boycott of grapes from growers who have signed with the Teamsters. At 
the rally following the breakdown of the talks, Chavez told the workers, “I’ve just talked 
with Dolores Huerta, Richard Chavez, Leroy Chattfieid and Eliseo Medina; they are now 
in position in the largest cities of this nation and Canada and they are there for only one 
reason: to see that the price of those grapes go down so that the growers will lose 
money even if they sell them.” Chavez said the other reasons the negotiations failed 
included: —The growers refused to recognize the Union in crops other than grafres. —
They wanted to omit the hiring hall and seniority clauses. —They refused to even 
acknowledge that camp housing was “lousy.” The Union demanded that the growers 
replace the delapidated housing. —They refused to even talk about pesticides. Union 
officials do not feel the negotiations will resume soon. Chavez told the workers that 
California is witnessing the “largest and maybe the longest strike in its history.” 
"In Coachella, Tulare, Fresno, Modesto, Salinas, Santa Maria, Oxnard, Lamont and Colorado; 
wherever there are strikes, the brothers and sisters send their solidarity to you,” he said. 
“We’re not afraid to struggle. We welcome this challenge if this is what it takes to make the 
union a free and democratic union for good people, we’re willing to do it. As long as there’s 
one ounce of strength in our bodies, that ounce will be used to fight for this just cause,” he said.
"You will not starve. The money you have been putting in the strike fund for three years 
is in a piggy bank." He promised each worker $75 a week as long as the money lasted. 
The strikers had hoped to win a contract, but they were prepared to strike. On July 24, 
more than 2,000 met at the Union’s Forty Acres and voted to strike if the negotiation 
failed. William Kircher, director of the AFL-CIO, told the workers at that meeting, "This is 
Delano, the heart of the union, the core of the farm workers Union. There isn’t a power 
on earth that can destroy it.”


