Allende overthrow was only one symptom of disease

NEW YORK, Oct 8 (TNS) Much more is afoot in Latin America than the overthrow of a 
single democratic government. It is clear from the events of the last month that a 
counter-revolutionary offensive is underway over the entire continent. An axis of 
reactionary governments allied with the United States is being built to stem the leftward 
trend among the peoples of Latin America. In 1964 the progressive Brazilian 
government of Joa Goulart was overthrown by the present fascist dictatorship. Right-
wing forces led by Hugo Banzer seized the Bolivian government from the progressive 
Juan Jose Torres in 1971. Threatened by growing guerrilla movements and a popular 
left election front, the Uruguayan military carried out a “self-coup” in that nation on June 
29 of this year, maintaining Juan Maria Bordaberry in the presidency, but dissolving 
Congress and ruling in its place. September 11 extended this military-repressive axis [ 
to the Pacific Ocean. The Brazil-Uruguay-Paraguay-Bolivia-Chile axis is attempting to 
isolate the remaining popular governments of Peron in Argentina and Velasco Alvarado 
in Peru. i The day after the fascist coup in Chile a Colombian newspaper published on 
its front page a map of South America with a dark green stain spreading across the 
continent of from Brazil, covering Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia and Chile. The caption 
read “Brazilian geopolitical pressures reach the Pacific.” This fits in with the Brazilian 
military's expressed theories of “ideological frontiers” and with the writings of General 
Pinochet, fascist leader of Chile, whose book “Geopolitics” lauds the principles of the all-powerful 
state whose purpose is territorial expansion and international influence. Nowhere is this more clearly felt than in 
Argentina, South America’s most industrialized country. A week after the Chilean coup, 
Prensa Latina’s Argentine correspondent Fernando Mas interviewed several political 
leaders in Buenos Aires, all of whom reflected a common opinion about events on the 
continent. A deputy of the Christian Popular Party (one of the branches of the Christian 
Democrats) said, “I'm ashamed to be a Christian Democrat (the Christian Democrats 
were the major opposition party to Allende in Chile and bear great responsibility for his 
overthrow —TNS) This proves once more that the imperialist encirclement is subjecting 
our country because it has made its position clear in the OAS, and with the non-aligned 
countries in Algiers." Personist Youth deputy Rodolfo Vitar told Prensa Latina, "... this 
rightwing coup is an expression of the blockade which Yankee imperialism is beginning 
to build to crush any upsurge of a popular government. The leader of the Argentine 
Communist Party drew even further conclusions from the coup. In an October 2 press 
conference in Buenos Aires, Fernando Nadra stated that “The United States is 
preparing the coup and the future Pinochet of Argentina. The Chilean coup, he said, is 
part of “a unified plan by yanqui imperialism and the CIA to block the process of national 
liberation in Latin America. For Argentinians, he said, it is necessary to develop “a great 
movement of solidarity with Chile which is also a movement of national defense.”

