Huerta to speak todayThree women, each of whom has made an outstanding contribution to her specific field of endeavor, will be featured guest speakers at the University this month. Delores Huerta, today’s leading Chicana activist and United Farmworker Union (UFW) Organizer; Flo Kennedy, prominent Black attorney active in civil rights, consumerism, and womens rights; and Marlene Dixon, critical participant of women’s movement and Professor from McGill University represent only a few of the women who are active and articulate in their various struggles. Mrs. Huerta, vice president and director of negotiations for the United Farmworker Union (UFW) will be a featured guest speaker at Macky Auditorium, tonight at 8:00. Mrs. Huerta will speak on "Updating the Farmworkers Struggle.” Mrs. Huerta will also be available for informal rap sessions open to the public at the Fleming Law Building courtroom at noon and the University Memorial Center (UMC) Human Relations Lounge from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Mexican food will be served in the UMC New Deli beginning at noon and entertainment such as Mexican music and dancers will be provided at 5:00 p.m. before her evening speech at 8:00. Mrs. Huerta, known nationally as one of today's leading Chicanas in the farmworker movement, has been active in the UFW’s struggle for contracts with California grape and lettuce growers. Presently active in the planning of the lettuce boycott, in speaking at rallies, in negotiating, traveling, and seeking support for "La Causa,” Huerta has been referred to as the "unheralded heroine of the farmworker's movement." According to Mrs. Huerta, the UFW union is seeking to replace the "inhuman” piece rate system with contracts providing for minimum hourly wages, medical and death benefits and pesticide controls. Like all other union officialsand employees, Mrs. Huerta earns a salary of $5 a week and a subsistence largely dependent upon contributions of food and clothing. The only woman among five vice presidents of the UFW union, Mrs. Huerta is often the only woman at the negotiating table. Flo Kennedy, author of Abortion Rap, has been active in the civil rights struggle as a lawyer and recently starred in the documentary film, "Black Roots." She will be available for rap sessions Thursday, April 12 at the Fleming Law Building at noon and UMC 422 from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. She will give a formal presentation, "Women's Liberation A Black View" in Macky Auditorium, at 8:00 that evening. Marlene Dixon will speak April 16 at 7:30 p.m. in Chemistry 140 on "Women’s Liberation: A Critique.” She also will be available for informal rap sessions in UMC 366 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.