Community news community news community news

The Chicano Volunteer Probation Program The Adams, Denver, and Jefferson County Courts are in need of chicano volunteers in the area of probation. Many chicanos come before the courts and many times they are sent to jail. Why? Because they did not have someone from the community to help him with his problem. The chicano counselors for Adams, Denver, and Jefferson counties speak to the judges on behalf of their Chicano defendant. The judge will usually allow the defendant to apply for probation through the chicano counselor. In the event that probation is granted, the probationer will be assigned to a chicano volunteer. This means many chicanos do not have to go to jail. The court requires that the volunteer meet with his probationer at least an hour every week and that he write a monthly report on the progress of his probationer. So for an hour a week we can keep our chicano hermanos from going to jail. How does that grab you? If you are interested in becoming a volunteer counselor call or write to: Roy Martinez Chicano Volunteer Coordinator Hall of Justice 1931 East Bridge Street Brighton, Colorado 80601 659-1161 ext. 41

Discrimination complaint stalled 
Four and a half months after he filed a job discrimination complaint with the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, Pete Reyes, a former UMAS president, has yet to receive any notice of action on the complaint. Reyes filed the complaint February 13 against the city of Boulder. Reyes and several others applied for the newly created position of Director of the Office of Human Rights. The director is charged with investigating complaints of discrimination in housing, employment, etc., brought by members of minority groups, elderly people, long hairs, or any other individuals. The job was awarded to Terry Belton, who received the approval of Les Olsen, Human

Resources department head for the city; Euvaldo Valdez, who works for the Boulder County School District; and, Barbara Jones, the director of the universities’ Affirmative Action Program. Reyes contends that since all the applicants met the basic requirements for the job, the job was awarded on the basis of “who would 'rock the boat’ the least. City officials are interested in tokenism, not effective minority participation in government,” Reyes said. The Civil Rights Commission sometimes takes up to a year to begin investigating charges of discrimination. Officials at the Commission blame the long delay on a large backlog of cases and a limited number of staff to work on the cases.