Boulder four face criminal charges

Four Chicanos have thus far been issued summons in the aftermath of a visit by 
Congressman Henry B. Gonzales, D-Texas, to the Boulder campus. Jose Calderon, 
Jess Vigil, Frank Luevano and Charles Koehler have all been charged with disruption of 
a lawful assembly and interference with the students, staff and faculty of an educational 
institution. Vigil faces additional charges from the Faculty Disciplinary Committees. Vigil 
had filed a complaint against Chief John Towles of the University Security Force after 
Towles made a remark towards Vigil during the Gonzales incident. Towles allegedly told 
Vigil “You’d suck anybody’s ass to get what you want.” Vigil filed his complaint with William Erskine, 
University Vice-President for Business Affairs. Erskine has not yet responded to the 
complaint. The Colorado Daily quoted Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) sources as 
saying an investigation is now being undertaken to see if any federal laws were violated 
during the incident. No charges have been filed yet in federal court. The term “Gonzales 
incident” refers to the spontaneous demonstration that erupted when the Congressman 
tried to deliver a speech at the University Memorial Center on August 9. The widely 
publicized incident included verbal and physical assaults against the Congressman, 
but the entire story has not been told yet. 

The defendants have been advised to decline comment on the charges until trial is held 
in each case. Jess Vigil will appear at a public hearing before the Faculty Disciplinary 
Committee on Monday, September 17, at 1:00 p.m. 

Until the trials, El Diario offers this account of what really occurred when Congressman Gonzales came to CU. 
k* ******* ******s The traditionally distorted coverage of Chicano events by the white media was 
never more evident than in the media coverage of the visit by Henry B. Gonzales, 
Democrat Congressman from Texas, to the University of Colorado, Boulder campus. Gonzales 
came to Boulder and touched off an incident that is still affecting Chicanos in Boulder 
and Denver. Not one story about the incident has told the whole truth, for as it always is 
and always will be, white racists who weren’t involved and who didn’t know the facts 
tried to write about what really happened. The setting Representative Gonzales was 
invited to speak at CU by an all-while speakers commission who later said “We were 
trying to find someone who would represent the Mexican-American community.” At no 
time did the speakers’ commission ask for input from Chicano students at the 
University; instead, the Anglo faculty members did "what we felt was best for the 
Mexican-Americans in Boulder.’ Afternoon meeting About 2:00 on the afternoon of the 
scheduled lecture, UMAS students were called and told that Gonzales had arrived early 
and would be available to speak to us. With such short notice only a few Chicanos could 
be present at the discussion, but word spread quickly and people kept coming as the 
meeting progressed. At first the discussion was quiet and peaceful except for one 
exchange between Jose Ortega, a student, and Congressman Gonzales. When Ortega 
asked a question about Gonzales’ support of the Rodino Bill, which would require all 
Mexican-Americans to carry an identification card to prove they are American
would become a string of insults. “How can you explain your support of the Rodino Bill 
and your support of Chicanos?” Ortega asked. Gonzales replied “My friend, you’re  
showing your ignorance.” Every Chicano in the room immediately put up mental 
defenses after hearing this remark. Yet Gonzales’ remark about ignorance was nothing 
compared to his insults toward Jose Calderon, who was recently' elected Co-chairman 
of the Colorado La Raza Unida Party. Calderon had entered the meeting 25 minutes 
after it had begun, and he listened intently to Gonzales’ statements. Jose Calderon then 
began speaking to Gonzales about general topics, and Calderon prefaced his remarks 
by saying, "These are my opinions.” "The masses of people in Texas are oppressed,” 
Calderon said, and added another qualifier: "remember, I’m not a university student and 
these are only my opinions.” “It has been clearly shown that the politicos in Texas and 
Nuevo Mexico have not served the needs of the people,” Calderon said. “A bilingual bill 
has been passed, and that bilingual bill has done little other than to assimilate a lot of 
people." Even at this point Gonzales was refusing to let Calderon talk, for Gonzales kept 
interjecting comments. “A person who gets elected in the United States, as was proven 
by Senator Montoya in Nuevo Mexico, is elected with large support from the 
corporations..." Calderon he insults once more. “That's not true in my case. My friend, look, let me tell you 
something, let me stop you right there because you’re ignorant,” Gonzales said, “if 
you’re trying to say that that’s true in my case, you’re wholly ignorant, and don’t know 
the facts. Now if you want to talk about (Senator) Montoya, that’s different.” “I think 
that's true of every candidate,” Calderon said, and Gonzales replied "You’re a liar." 
Calderon began to reply and Gonzales said "You’re a god damn liar!" Calderon said “I 
am not a liar” but Gonzales would hear none of it. Instead, Gonzales replied “Listen! I 
had to fight chicken-shits worse than you to win (his Congressional seat).” “I am not a 
chicken-shit,” Calderon said, “and you have been lying to our people.” Gonzales got up 
from his seat and advanced towards Calderon, saying, “You’re a liar, you're a god-damn 
liar, you’re a filthy liar, you’re a cheap, coward sort of a loudmouth.” Any real discussion 
had ended when Gonzales’ insults began. Gonzales made no attempt to act impartial 
any longer. “I don’t need a little snot like you to tell me about the system,” Gonzales told 
Calderon, and Jose Ortega, an UMAS student, replied "Can you talk without calling 
names? Can you?” "You don’t interrupt people in Congress," Ortega said, and added, 
“Will you listen to us?" Yet nothing important came out of the meeting, since Gonzales 
refused to let any of the Chicanos talk.

The Gonzales ‘incident’ Those of you familiar with the Gonzales incident at the 
University Memorial Center probably read or heard accounts centering on the 
confrontation with the Congressman, and the so-called abuse he was subjected to. The 
main question at the lecture that evening was: should Gonzales be allowed to attack 
unopposed and be given our respect when he had not shown Chicanos respect or 
allowed Chicanos to talk? The answer was no. Post-mortem The most obvious result of 
Congressman Gonzales’ visit to Boulder came several days later when Jose Calderon 
and Jess Vigil were charged with unlawful assembly and campus disorder. Probably the 
most sickening aspect of the entire incident were the writings of worms who came out of 
the wood to attack Chicanos who were at the lecture that evening. In newspaper after 
newspaper were letters and articles from ‘outraged citizens’ and other vultures who had 
emerged to attack Chicanos, with comments from Geraldine Bean, CU regent, Arturo 
Cabrera, Professor of Education at CU, and others. Each of the letters and articles 
contained loud and long cries against “the denial of Congressman Gonzales' right to 
speak.” Yet these are the same people who never raised their voices when outrages are committed against Chicanos.
Where was Professor Cabrera when Ricardo Falcon was shot to death? Where was Geraldine Bean when 
UMAS began fighting University administrators over hiring practices? Perhaps the most 
hypocritical statements came from University President Fredreick P. Thieme, who 
denounced Chicanos at the summer commencement ceremonies on the Boulder 
campus. Thieme was the same man who obtained court orders banning Ricardo 
Falcon, Pat Vigil and Florencio ‘Freddy’ Granado from appearing on campus, besides 
denying their freedom of speech rights. This incident has proven beneficial to campus 
and community Chicanos, for when the truth is finally known, more people will be aware 
of the true nature of the beast we are fighting. The beast sits in isolated offices and 
fights for court orders against Chicanos; he remains silent when outrages are committed 
against Chicanos; he hides behind police officers' badges, behind a Regents meeting’s 
closed doors, and directs the attack from there; or he calls himself an elected 
representative who is far superior to mere ignoranl ‘spies.’ That is the true nature of the 
beast.

