Community news - Community news - Community news -

Students fast A number of UMAS students fasted from noon Monday until noon Thursday in support of the farmworkers strike in Center, Colorado. Twelve signed the original list of those observing the fast while several other students began fasting at later times during this week. The fast was held in conjunction with a food drive for the striking farmworkers in Center. The food drive has been especially important since the farmworkers have been very low on food during the last three weeks. Jose Ortega, UMAS member, said Chicano students had taken $25 worth of food and a $25 dollar purchase order to the farmworkers last Friday. "It’s obvious that the battle has just begun” Ortega said, and called for a renewed effort to help the farmworkers. As part of the UMAS support for the strike, Chicano students will be soliciting contributions at Regent Hall today. All collected funds will be used to purchase food for the farmworkers or will be given directly to the striking workers.

In addition, students will be knocking on doors in the Table Mesa area of Boulder to ask for canned goods and other food for the strikers. "We plan to begin the door-to-door campaign as soon as possible, possibly tonight,” Ortega said. Ortega said that all questions about the support efforts could be directed to Felipe Martinez, who is coordinating the Farm Labor Task Force this summer. 2000 workers arrested Almost 2000 UFW strikers and workers were arrested in Kern County, California, after a local judge issued a temporary injunction severely restricting picket line activities by the UFW. Judge John Nairn issued the injunction which stipulates that the UFW can use a bullhorn only one hour each day, picketers will stay 11 feet away from each other, only two picketers are allowed at any entrance to Kern County farms, and a total of 25 picketers will be the maximum at any one site. “We’re writing letters to the judge asking him to rescind the injunction," Carol Longoria of the Denver UFW office said, “and the farmworkers are appealing Nairn's decision.” Longoria asked that El Diario readers join in the letter-writing campaign, and gave Judge Nairn’s address as Judge John Nairn Kern County Courthouse 1415 Truxton Avenue Bakersfield, Calif. 93301 Bar exams biased Jacobo Pacheco of Denver filed suit Tuesday in Denver U.S. District Court against the Colorado Supreme Court and the State Board of Law Examiners claiming Colorado’s bar examinations are biased against minority group persons. Pacheco filed the suit on behalf of all Chicanos and Blacks who have failed the bar exam or who will fail it because of the “racially discriminatory purpose and effect of the examination." that only 35 per cent of the Chicanos and 42 per cent of the Blacks who took the test passed it, while 73 per cent of the Anglos passed the bar exams.

The complaint stated, in part, that “it is apparent that the Colorado Bar Examination is being administered in large measure for the purpose of maintaining the bar as a largely all-white institution” and has “the effect of denying equal protection of the law to minority groups.” Pacheco asked the law examiners to produce the questions to the test, his answers and a random sampling of the answers of 10 persons who had passed the test and 10 persons who failed, along with model answers to the questions. He also asked the Court to force the bar examiners to set up a hearing for those who want to know why they failed the test. Finally, Pacheco asked that all testing be halted until the bar examinations are validated to show that the test is itself valid. Members of the bar and the Colorado Supreme Court could not be reached for comment on the suit.

In Cold Blood A Dallas, Texas, police officer shot and killed a 12-year-old Chicano schoolboy who was handcuffed and seated next to the officer, police officials said. A police spokesman said Santos Rodriguez and his brother David, 13, were being questioned about a burglary when the shooting occurred. Dallas Police Chief Frank Dyson told reporters he will seek a murder indictment against Patrolman Darryl L. Cain, 30. Dyson said the killing was “uncalled for, illegal and unjustified” and there had been no attempt by the Chicanos to escape. Cain was arrested, charged with murder, arraigned and released on $5OOO bond. Dyson suspended Cain indefinitely. A police spokesman said Cain was holding a gun to Rodriguez’ head when it discharged.
