Twitchell, Vendel: no discrimination in Boulder

Boulder City Manager Archie Twitchell, who had promised a "complete investigation” into charges of police harassment of Boulder Chicanos, has told the UMAS board of directors that Boulder police are not prejudiced, and that charges against Jose Calderon will not be dropped. Twitchell, City Police Chief Don Vendel and two other police administrators met with about 12 Chicanos last Friday to hear Twitchell’s report on police actions. Twitchell’s investigation was initiated in response to complaints aired at a June 22 meeting between Chicanos and city officials at the Colonial House (see the June 29 El Diario for more details on the meeting.) “There is no official policy of police harassment of Chicanos in Boulder,” Twitchell said, "and the police did not overreact in arresting Jose Calderon and Preslano Montoya.” Twitchell said he had talked with all the police officers involved in the incident, and based his claim on their testimony.

“Did you talk to even one of the Chicanos involved?” Jose Ortega, board chairman, asked. Twitchell said he hadn’t. “Then how can you absolve the police of any wrongdoing without talking to the Chicanos involved?” Ortega asked. Twitchell replied that he had talked to Jose Calderon at the June 22 meeting, and had begun the investigation believing the police were at fault. "Yet 1 could not find andy evidence that the police -were wrong,” Twitchell said. Police Chief Vendel then said he had completed his own investigation of the incident, and agreed that the police were not at fault. When asked if he had talked to any of the Chicanos arrested, Vendel said he hadn’t. “I feel the truth will come out in court,” Vendel said, "but I know we observe no policy of discrimination against Chicanos.” In fact, Vendel said, his police force is one of the most severe in dealing with complaints of police brutality, misconduct, and discrimination. “You’ve already absolved the police of any wrongdoing, so we can't get anywhere with this meeting,” Ortega told Vendel, but the topic changed and the meeting continued. Colonial not harassed Chicanos had told Twitchell that the Colonial and Colony, two Chicano residence halls on the hill, were being watched closely by police, and that residents of the two buildings were being subject to “unconstitutional searches and invasions of their privacy,” Russ Vigil told Vendel. Vendel replied that the entire University Hill area was the highest crime area in the city until massive police patrolling and surveillance of the area was begun some time ago. Resident complaints that police were shining spotlights in Colonial windows were unfounded, Vendel said, “because we do that to all the buildings on the hill. We’re just trying to spot burglars.”

When asked why residents of the Colonial and Colony were being continually stopped and asked for identification, Vendel said no such actions were occurring. “You have to realize that police officers are told to stop crimes from occurring, and we don’t tell them exactly what to do,” Vendel said. None of the police officers assigned to the hill area have been given any special training to deal with longhairs or Chicanos, but none is needed, Vendel said. “There just isn’t any reason to give the police special training,” Vendel said. Taken for a ride “I don’t think you understand the problems the officers are facing,” Vendel said, and offered to give UMAS organization members rides in police cars while the police are on duty. Several of the Chicanos in attendance at the meeting said this would be a good idea. When contacted later for comment on the police 'Offer, Jose Calderon said “the police will offer you anything after the fact, but then will continue their racist actions.” Issues unresolved Jose Calderon will appear for arraignment in Boulder District Court, Canyon Boulevard and Broadway, on July 19th, where he will answer charges of obstruction of police authority and menacing a police officer. Preslano Montoya, who was charged with possession of intoxicants in a public place, is scheduled to go to trial August 2nd at 1:15 p.m. “Both the city officials and the police feel there is no problem,” Jose Ortega said, “yet the Chicanos are still going to be tried, and the police remain unaffected.” Police Chief Vendel agreed to put aside funds for sensitivity training for police officers for contact with minority peoples. Members of the UMAS organization will now appear before groups of police officers and give the officers some explanation of the 'new Chicano characterized Dy UMAS EGP students.
