Crusade will continue despite attackBy John L. Espinosa“We intend to carry on our school; we intend to rebuild our building; we intend to be independent,” Rodolfo “Corky” Gonzales vowed before newsmen and 350 supporters of Denver’s Crusade for Justice, which he heads. Gonzales pledged to continue his “crusade for justice” in the wake of Saturday's early morning gun battle which left 20-year-old Luis A. Martinez dead, apparently from police bullets, and at least 19 persons injured and 36 arrested. “Luis Martinez was murdered,” Gonzales told a group that gathered at the Crusade headquarters Sunday. He said there were knowledgeable witnesses who would make this known after they confer with their attorneys. “The young people who were shot, arrested and brutalized were provoked into resistance. It was a planned attack,” Gonzales said. He made reference to a Black woman who had attended a party at one of the apartments where the gun battle took place. She was “the same Black woman in police uniform who shot Ernesto Vigil in the back” later that night, he said. The incident took place on the 1500 block of Downing where the Crusade and theapartment complex owned by the Escuela Tlatelolco are located. The three-hour gun battle began shortly after midnight when Patrolman Stephen Snyder and Policewoman Carol Hogue parked across the street from the apartment building. A young man, later identified as Martinez, walked across the street and asked what they were doing. When they did not answer he persisted and was then told he had jaywalked. They asked for identification and a small group formed around the patrol car. Snyder ordered them away and they complied. Then Martinez bolted from the car with Snyder in pursuit. The Denver Post said in Sunday’s paper that Hogue followed the two in the patrol car. “She got out and found Snyder, bleeding from the two wounds,” police said. He told her he had just shot the suspect and was shot by him, the report said. Gonzales said, “Luis Martinez was not shot in a front-to-front confrontation with Stephen Snyder, but was shot in the back.” He was then dragged between the two buildings and shot with his face downward, he said. ‘He lived long enough to leave a message for all policemen; in his own blood he wrote it on the walls and he was left there to die,” Gonzales said. When asked what the message was, he said, “Fuck the Pig.”During the confrontation, an explosion ripped out one wall and part of the roof of one of the second story apartments. Police have estimated the explosion had the force of 20 sticks of dynamite, but they are still investigating the cause of the blast. It was reported in the Denver newspapers that the police “smelled” dynamite after the explosion, but no lab reports have been made public. On Saturday demolition teams began destruction of the blast site. This was against the requests of Ken Padilla, a MALDEF attorney who is investigating the incident. Padilla asked that he be permitted to bring in an independent investigation team to determine the cause of the explosion. District Attorney Dale Tooley told Padilla to document the need for an immediate independent investigation. Before he could acquire this documentation and shortly after Tooley had talked to him, Padilla said the wrecking crews had already begun the destruction of evidence. There are felony charges pending against six in connection with the incident. All of those charged with felonies received injuries and were treated at Denver General Hospital. “The people who were most seriously injured and beaten are now the ones being charged with felony crimes,”Ernesto Vigil said. "Again the victim ends up looking like the instigator,” he added. One of those allegedly beaten by the police was Ramirez. He said he arrived about 3 in the morning to see how he could help. He saw a police detective, Pete Diaz, kicking “this fellow.” I said, “There’s no need for that, what’s the matter with you people?” Ramirez said he was then beaten by many officers. He said Diaz was yelling “Kill him . . . kill the son of a bitch . . . grab his arms.” At the conference he wore a patch over a badly battered eye. He also had bruises about the rest of his face and several stitches along one side of his head. Another person who was allegedly beaten was David Gonzales. He said he drove to the area to see what was happening. “I was dragged from my car and beaten,” he said. He told how an officer wrapped two sticks that were tied together with a leather strap around his neck and was strangling him. Several other officers reportedly joined in the beating as he was being dragged around the yard. “I was handcuffed during this time,” he said. Ramirez pointed out that many of the injuries reported by the police were broken toes. “They broke their toes on my head and the heads of my Brothers, if anyone wants to know," he said. “I feel nothing,they didn’t hurt me as they think they did . . .I’d gladly go over this again as long as you little ones can see and you can know what to expect from them from now on and be prepared and ready when they come,” he said. Padilla charged there were mass violations of civil rights. People were arrested simply to remove them from the scene, he said. “People who were watching TV were arrested for assaulting a police officer . . . these are the victims and yet Mr. Tooley relies upon the Police department for his investigation,” Padilla said. Vigil answered to the fears expressed in the local media that this incident is going to destroy all of the progress that has been made between the Chicano community and the police department. “There has never been any progress in our relationship; we’ve always been at the bottom suffering from their suppression,” he said. Gonzales said they had received offers of support from other Chicano groups in New Mexico, Texas, California etc. He has also received support from many Indian groups including AJM. At the University, Jheri David, head of NAIO, voiced support for the Crusade. Gonzales did not urge people to come to Denver. He said he was sure there were things they should be taking care of in their own cities. “We’ll get to the truth here ourselves,” he said.