Community news-Community news

The Colorado La Raza Unida party will host an international convention of brown peoples this summer to promote the ijfe? of “Raza nationalism and the independence of our Chicano nation, Aztlap.,” Jose Calderon, newly elected state chairman, said. Calderon called for a return to the ideas and philosophies of ‘EI Plan Espiritual de Aztlan,” which was adopted at the first National Chicano Youth Liberation Conference in Denver, March 1969. The plan calls for the use of nationalism as the key for mass mobilization and organization. “We understand that La Raza Unida is not a political prostitute to be used by those who seek positions, prestige, or money,” Calderon said. He stressed the difference between compromise or bargaining power and true political power. “Some say that we should compromise and bargain with the Democrats and Republicans,” Calderon said, "but time and time again bargaining has not worked." Instead, he said, “La Raza Unida Party must be used only as an avenue to educate our people on the political, economic, educational, and social oppression that exists in this nation and in other oppressed nations all over the world.” “La Raza Unida Party is the party of this oppressed nation,” Calderon said, “and as a nation of oppressed people we have realized that another step must be taken in the process of liberation.”

This next step will be the expansion of the Chicano movement until it is worldwide in scope, and the unification of other oppressed groups, organizations and nations throughout the world. La Raza Unida National Congreso will be held on August 18, 19, and 20th at the Crusade for Justice in Denver. “We will be inviting observers from movement organizations in Latin America-particularly from the Puerto Rican Socialist Party, “El Comite de Lucha” from Mexico, students from Mexico, organizations from Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Guatemala, other Latin American countries, and people from the occupied nation of Aztlan,” Calderon said. “In this way, the Colorado La Raza Unida Party intends to implement its platform, El Plan Espiritual de Aztlan, and present its clear position on the philosophy and future of La Raza Unida Party,” Calderon said.

List of Candidates for Board of Directors Ernie B. Gutierrez Tellie Maez Bill Lechuga Mike Carreras Tom Torres Leo P. Lobato Ronnie Chavez Ron Sandoval Claudia Jasper Bobby Dominquez Hilda Lozano Michael Garcia ‘Nick Vargas "Antonio Campos •Steve Gonzales •Jose Gutierrez "Tony Borrego "Indicates the candidates that have not turned in their petitions. Felipe Roybal