Summer, 1973 - Chicanos get it on

A great deal occured this summer while most UMAS students worked in their 
communities. Classes began Monday, June 18, for about 300 freshmen UMAS 
students. The 1973 UMAS summer program included 13 hours of classes plus other 
activities, the heaviest class load of any summer program. However, most students 
were able to make it through the summer and have returned this fall. Safeway March 
On June 23, 300 UMAS students and community people marched on the Safeway store 
at 28th and Arapahoe in Boulder. The march was organized in support of the United 
Farm Workers’ Union, and drew support form the New American Movement (NAM), 
Women’s Liberation, the Migrant Action Program (MAP), St. Thomas Aquinas, the 
Boulder Lettuce Boycott Committee, the Farm Labor Task Force, and several other 
groups. At about the same time Chicano students and community people began meeting with 
City of Boulder officials to discuss police harassment of Chicanos in Boulder. 
After a long meeting with City Manager Archie Twitched, who promised a ‘complete investigation' 
into the charges, Chicanos were told “no discrimination exists in Boulder.” The police harassment 
meeting came as a result of two incidents, one of which resulted in charges against Jose Calderon and Preslano 
Montoya of Greeley. Calderon was charged with obstruction of police authority and 
menacing a police officer, while Montoya was charged with possession of liquor in a 
public place. The incident occurred at St. Thomas Aquinas Church when the Greeley 
Chicanos were leaving after performing teatro at the Church. Outside, the Chicanos 
encountered a Boulder detective who immediately called for reinforcements when he 
saw the Chicanos. Ten police cars came, and police officers formed a line to push the 
Chicanos out of the street. When Jose Calderon and a St. Thomas priest objected, Calderon was arrested. 
The other incident in question involved residents of the Colonial and the Colony 
Houses, which Chicano students may purchase as a Chicano cultural Center. When 
Chicano residents moved in this summer, police officers began shining spotlights in 
residents’ windows after 3:00 a.m., and began issuing ‘contact cards' to Colonial and 
Colony residents. The officers said they were trying to identify drug pushers, but this 
excuse did not set well with the residents. After the meeting with Twitchwell, police 
offiers did become somewhat less visible, but Colonial residents continued to be 
harassed by the officers. One action did result from the meeting. Boulder Police Chief 
Don Vendel said UMAS students could ride with police officers on the officers’ regular 
beats, and so several UMAS students made the rounds with the officers. The students 
prepared reports on the officers’ behavior, but no comnrehensive
report of what occurred has been released. 

Affirmative Action 

A year ago University administrators were ordered by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare to 
draw up an affirmative Action Program for more equitable hiring of women and 
minorities. UMAS became involved in the Affirmative action plan when two students 
approached Jess Vigil, ASUC tri-exec. The students complained that Chicanos at the 
Recreation Building were being given the worst jobs, and had a number of other 
complaints. Vigil approached William Appenzeller, Recreation Department director, and 
told Appenzeller of the student complaints. Appenzeller admitted all the allegations were 
true, and said action would-be taken immediately, beginning with the firing of Peter 
Solomon, whom students had said was hired illegally. As Vigil began to look into the 
matter more closely, he found that Soloman had been hired without the job opening
being posted, when the University’s Affirmative Action guidelines specifically prohibit 
such hirings. Appenzeller fired Solomon, but Vigil had by then found that Appenzeller 
had made promises to Chicano students for three years that conditions would change in 
the Recreation dept. Students quoted Appenzeller as saying "Chicanos just don’t 
produce" when asked why no Chicano coordinators worked for Recreation. Appenzeller 
had also ordered a Chicano student out of the glass-walled handball court so that two 
Anglo faculty members could use the glass-walled court. The faculty members wanted 
their friends to see them play. These charges and a number of other charges led the 
UMAS Board of Directors to call for Appenzellers’ resignation or termination, and to call 
UMAS students for a march in protest of Appenzellers’ actions.

After about 200 UMAS students marched from the UMC to the Recreation Building, 
negotiations began to remove Appenzeller from his post. Vice-President Roland C. 
Rautenstraus heard the complaints and investigated the charges by talking with 
Appenzeller and his staff. It came as no surprise to UMAS students when Rautenstraus 
said Appenzeller would not be disciplined for his actions. Before any further actions 
could take place, UMAS became involved in the Henry B. Gonzales incident (see 
related story).

Center strike support Throughout the summer 

UMAS students provided support to the farmworkers striking against the Mel Finerman Company in 
Center, Colorado. On several occassions UMAS members traveled to Center to bring
back-first-hand information on the strike. UMAS students here in Boulder did their part, 
too. Several food drives were held, with contributions ranging from $4OO collected at 
Regent Hall to $6O in food from the King Soopers store at 30th and Arapahoe in 
Boulder. Several UMAS students went door to door in the Table Mesa area and 
collected canned goods and other foodstuffs.

UFW vs. Teamsters 

Boulder was also the scene of a debate between Richard Longoria, 
Denver UFW organizer, and Rudy Guerra, a representative of the Teamsters Union who 
was flown in from California especially for the debate. Each speaker presented his view 
of the farmworkers’ struggle for 15 minutes each, and answered questions immediately 
afterwards. Students present at the debate listened to both sides and at the end of the 
debate shouted “Viva la Huelga” and “Abajo los Teamsters!” Many UMAS students are 
still participating in the farmworkers struggle. Picket lines will be established by the 
Farm Labor Task Force at the University. More information can be had by calling Victor 
Gonzales, 443-2211, ext. 6572, or by dropping by UMC 186. All told, the summer 
students had quite an educational experience this summer.
