Advising component begins operation
The long-awaited UMAS-EOP advising component began operations two weeks ago under the direction of Joey Henderson, a Chicana Masters graduate of the University of Northern Colorado. Miss Henderson will be advising students in all aspects of academic plant ing. “In some cases we’ve had freshman students who were advised to take three- and four hundred level courses,” Miss. Henderson said. Also, some Chicano seniors who had been counseled to take courses which wouldn't fulfill their requirements have found that they won’t be graduating this spring. Miss Henderson hopes to prevent any further cases of poor planning or missed requirements. In addition, Miss Henderson will be helping with career planning, job placement and even some graduate counseling. She is being aided by three work-study helpers. Miss Henderson began working during pre-registration for Spring semester, and has now mastered the ways of the university. “Now, for instance, we’ll be conducting job interest and aptitude inventories to help the students decide what to major in,” she said. “The greatest problem we’re facing is counseling the large number of misinformed* students and undeclared majors,” Henderson said, "since many of them aught major in areas already too full to accommodate more graduates.” Miss Henderson noted that students majoring in Sociology should be aware that a Bachelor of Arts degree isn’t considered "sufficient education, since there are so many Masters and Doctoral sociologists competing for jobs.” Chicano students should be receiving notices in the mail this week setting up appointments with Miss Henderson. “We’ll begin looking over the students’ files and planning the proper advising,” she said. Miss Henderson is currently working out of Dean Small’s office in the UMC, room 328. Students with questions regarding academic requriements, career planning, job placement or graduate fellowships and programs for Chicanos can contact Miss Henderson at this office, or by calling ext. 8358.
Joey Henderson
