Summer plans begin
UMAS-EOP is presently formulating plans for the 1973 UMAS-EOP Summer Program. According to Joe Franco, UMAS-EOP director, “there will definitely be a summer program this year.” At this early date, UMAS-EOP has been granted a definite commitment of 350 students for the summer program with an additional minimum of 50 students for the fall, totaling to 400 new students for the 1973-74 academic year. “I’ve asked the faculty, staff, student leaders, and the student Board of Directors to have some input into the summer program,” Franco said. The summer program is required of all new EOP entering college freshmen. The program begins in mid-June and ends in mid-August, and will be either an eight week or ten week session. The student receives 11 college credit hours in addition to room and board and a weekly allowance during the summer orientation. The purpose of the summer program is to acquaint the students with the University and grant them an opportunity to further their education in an institution of higher learning. The program is designed primarily for low-income Chicano students. When recruiting the students for the program, priority will be given to in-state students over out-of-state students. Franco said. "For every out-of-state student funded by UMAS-EOP, two instate students can be funded.” Since the Colorado Commission on Higher Education (CCHE) controls state monies, the Colorado Student Grant previously awarded to out-of-state students can not exceed five per cent. Franco predicts the 1973 summer program will be more flexible than it has been in the past, offering a variety of courses, but still emphasizing basics as English, math, and the cultural/political aspects. "Changes will be necessary in the internal structure of the program at different levels, such as basic and advanced courses that should be considered," Franco said. “The rationale for this is because of the rumor that all students are disadvantaged in the same areas; this is not true. A good math student might have a good background in math, whereas a student who does poorly in math might have a poor math background.” “Our plans are to develop a program to fit the student rather than a program that the student fits,” Franco said. He also stressed the need for further development in the counseling and advising area to better advise the students. Instructors and courses for the summer program have not been considered yet, however, Franco suggested a combination of courses to offer the sociological, Spanish, and cultural/historical aspect, in addition to the basics as English and math. Financial aid for the continuing Fall 1973 students at the completion of the summer program is uncertain at this point. According to Franco, “There are different alternatives being proposed to the problem at this time." Franco referred to a recently proposed bill in Congress, the Basic Opportunity Grant (BOG) which if passed in Congress, may replace the current Educational Opportunity Grant (EOG). However, financial aid for UMAS-EOP students may not be altered extensively as a result of the bill. Single students participating in the summer program will be housed in one of the student dormitories during the entire session. Married students will be housed in one of the allocated married housing complexes. At this date, plans for a MAYA Conference (Mexican American Youth Adelante) have not been confirmed. The conference has previously been held at the end of spring semester to recruit students for the program and as a general orientation Approximately 75 work-study positions will be allocated to current UMAS students for full-time jobs as teacher assistants, counselors, tutors. Applications will be available the first week of April.
