Cartas-Cartas-Cartas-Cartas

UMAS denies charge 
On Saturday, June 23, 1973, a protest march and picket line were conducted against the local Safeway Store at 28th and Arapahoe street in Boulder. These activities were executed in order to assist the farmworkers in their struggle for equality and justice -a familiar struggle in modern America. These activities were organized by the United Mexican-American Students (UMAS) of the University of Colorado and were attended by other groups such as the local Womens’ Liberation Group, Associated Students of the University of Colorado (ASUC), Migrant Action Program (MAP), New American Movement (NAM), St. Thomas Aquinas, Boulder Lettuce Boycott Committee, Farm Labor Task Force, and the Mexican-American Correctional Help Organization (MACHO). It was reported by the Denver Post that some protester entered Safeway and filled shopping carts with food and destroyed certain perishable goods. The implication of the Post report was that UMAS was involved in the shopping cart incident. The fact of the matter is that the UMAS organization did not sponsor or in any way support such activity. Certain acts of civil disobedience entail the destruction of property, yet, UMAS, in its protest against Safeway, has at all times conducted its political efforts within the legal boundaries and has not resorted to any strategy which entails the destruction of property, food or any other commodity. lose Ortega, Chairman UMAS Board of Directors

CBSA SPEAKS 
Look closely at the corporate structure in America and you realize that not many Mexican-Americans are involved in the management of businesses in their own country. With this lack of economic power you also see there is an important loss of political power. The many Chicanos who are beginning to create and take advantage of the opportunities to get a college education must realize that getting a business education is an important avenue for gaining influence. Trained Chicanos are not only needed in the traditional management structure of American business, they are also needed to help La Raza organize for economic improvement. Business skills are needed to operate community projects; to operate Chicano-owned banks, construction companies and other businesses. The Chicano business students Association (CBSA) was organized in an effort to bring long needed economic power into Chicano communities. The University of Colorado chapter-(Boulder campus) recruits, advises, tutors, has a growing job placement network, and in general tries to help individual Chicanos get through business school The Boulder chapter is a part of the state CBSA organization which has its headquarters located at the university. At present there are chapters located at six other colleges in Colorado. The Colorado organization is part of the national organization which has its headquarters located at the University of California in Los Angeles. The Boulder office is located at Room 149, Business Building, and can be contacted by calling ext. 6181. All Chicanos interested in joining or learning more about CBSA should contact Dan Rodriguez, CBSA president, at 659-6023, or Ambrose Zaragoza, Sec.Treasurer, at extension 8492. Gloria Hightower Secretary, Colorado CBSA

Safeway March 
June 23, 1973 is a date that will be remembered by all who participated in the "Solidarity with the Farmworkers” march. People of diverse political philosophies and idealogies, service organizations, and religious groups joined together under one banner with one struggle in mind, i.e. the plight of the farmworker. It was strictly a nonviolent expression of frustration over Safeway’s involvement with the Teamster’s to prevent farmworkers from their right to an equitable standard of living. Yet, the inimitable Denver Pest or is it Post?, together with Safeway and the Boulder Police Department involved themselves in a political cloy to discredit UMAS and the United Farmworkers. Accusations of having destroyed perishable foods were levied against the participants, none of which have been substantiated. Let it be known to all, that ASUC, in its active support of the farmworkers had no knowledge of the alleged incidents, nor condones such actions. Jess Vigil ASUC Tri-Executive

Gaitan writes 
This letter is in regard to a handball tournament scheduled for July 28th under the direction of Harold “mojo” Mares. We are at the present time seeking outside competitors to match up against the inmates that will be participating here in the institution. The only way we can solicit outside participation is in the form of a letter such as this. We will have refreshments available for the participants during and after all the events and their decisions. And it has already been arranged so that all the outside guests will be served dinner in the officer’s dining room. The participation that we receive from our outside resource people will tell the tale as to how successful this benefit becomes. It is necessary that all parties wishing to become involved in these activities confirm thier attendance before July 15th. It should, from all appearances, be a festive and enjoyable day for all that are involved and participating. In closing, we would like to thank you for any and all assistance you may give us in this matter, anbd for being a sincere and willing person to help. Respectamente Suyo, Jose Gaitan, lads Pres.

Yo Soy
Chicano
I am Tomas. I work in the fields. It is hard work. We do not get enough money to feed our family. Then you are poor. You do not have enough money to buy your children clothes. The Anglo stole our land. We are trying to get our land back, but we have to fight for our land. We are boycotting Safeway because CHICANOS pick UNION Lettuce. Safeway does not like CHICANOS. So they buy NON-UNION Lettuce.
By Tomas Ornelas Age 10