ASUC course evaluation a good idea

The ASUC-sponsored course evaluation can be a very useful guide both to incoming freshmen and continuing University students. All too often students enter courses with no idea of course content, the instructors' expertise, how difficult the course will be, or of generally what to expect from the course. The last attempt at a course evaluation was a rambling narrative called the Boulder Guide's University Student Handbook, that suffered from two main deficiencies: first, the guide did not reflect enough student input, especially input from minority-group students. One professor said the guide's authors asked professors for their opinions on other professors in their departments, and based the guide on these opinions. Secondly, the guide did not contain enough specific information about courses offered by the University. Those courses familiar to the author were evaluated intelligently and comprehensively, but not enough courses were similarly analyzed. Of special importance to Debbie Veals, who is coordinating the ASUC course evaluation, is input from minority-group students. Minority-group students could prove what many have been saying for a long time: University faculty members are not as liberal as many conservatives picture them. In fact, too many tenured professors are conservative, inflexible tyrants who will never treat Chicanos or Blacks as people, as their intellectual equals. The evaluation should contain a special section for minority group students, and include specific inquiries about the professors’ actions and attitudes, such as The professor tends to patronize me; the prof tends to ignore me; the prof has little regard for what I can offer. On the other hand, this section should contain room for positive comments: The prof treats all students equally; the prof was very able and willing to help me with course materials; the prof showed a great deal of interest in my progress in his course. Finally, the course evaluation should be mandatory instead of voluntary. Too many tenured professors are getting away with intellectual sterility by refusing to participate in course evaluations. If you’d like to help with the course evaluation, call the ASUC office at ext. 7473 and talk to Debbie Veals. The more input the evaluation has, the more comprehensive it can be, and the better the chance we can learn something in classes and avoid noneducational dead ends.
