COPIRG opens CU chapterPlans for a CU chapter of a Ralph Nader inspired public interest protection group are going ahead despite some confusion about initial funding. The group, the Colorado Public Interest and Research Group COPIRG, sought and obtained a $592 commitment from the ASUC Senate to use for advertising. “We want to make the community aware of our group and what we intend to do,” Laine Ludgwig, one of the chapter's organizers, said. However, the commitment met with some resistance because COPIRG plans to use the money to “ask students to tax themselves $2.25 a semester for professionals who will act on their complaints,” Ludwig said. “You see, once we are organized we can help students being ripped off or with legitimate complaints about almost anything,” Ludwig said, “we’re not just concerned with consumer rights.” COPIRG will be involved in all aspects of community hassles, including job discrimination, consumer fraud, lobbying and other projects of interest to the community. Pat Pettapiece, another group organizer, said the group would be “open to almost any kind of project, especially if the projectwould benefit groups of people instead of individuals." “Our lawyers might defend Chicanos, Blacks, or women with complaints about job discrimination," Pettapiece said, “since groups like the Human Rights Commission often are only advisory and take no real action.” Ludwig noted that lobbying power will probably be another important facet of COPIRG. “We’ll be trying to pressure politicians into fulfilling their campaign promises, since they have away of forgetting their commitments,” Ludwig said. “We'll have researchers and professionals if the students approve the $2.25 per semester,” Ludwig said. In addition, Ludwig expects students and other community people to bring their own complaints to COPIRG. An example of a COPIRG backed project would be an investigation into substandard housing for migrant farm workers in Lafayette or nearby communities. “If the students will bring the complaints to us, we’ll take action,” Ludwig said. COPIRG funding will also be used for publication of the group’s findings, research on complaints, legal costs involved following through on complaints, and office supplies.