Chicano student representatives continue government duties

by Evelyn Martinez

ASUC (Associated Students of the University of Colorado), with Chicano representation in student governing affairs, has been influential in many decisions which affect the Chicano students on campus. ASUC currently has seven Chicano students on the Senate, in addition to Chicano triexecutive, Jess Vigil. According to Vigil, he is working through ASUC as a Chicano ombudsperson representing all Chicano students, including this years’ UMAS-EOP and MAP summer programs. All Chicano students who may have grievances against the EOP or University administration should see Vigil and a complete investigation will be conducted. For example, if a discrimination incident occurs, the case will be referred to the Human Rights Commission. Vigil will also be instrumental in working with a committee to look into the formation of a mechanism whereby students can be insured of having input into the important decision making of EOP administration. This committee will have some input into the hiring of UMAS-EOP staff, course curriculum, summer program planning, and student evaluations of teachers during the summer. Co-Op Education ASUC is also researching the Cooperative Education program this summer. The Board of Regents are acting on a proposal to have the Co-op education program moved to the Denver center of the University of Colorado. "At the next Regents meeting in July, ASUC will take a stand and demand that Co-op education be reinstated on this campus, in the event that the proposed transition will be approved by the Regents," Vigil said. The Co-op program aids minorities who desire to leave the University academic realm for a short period of time and can go back into their communities and work with their people, while receiving academic credits through their work, they will also be getting paid. "If the transition to Denver is approved by the Regents, it will discourage minority students from attending this campus, which was why the move was intended," Vigil said. Regent Meetings According to Vigil, ASUC is also involved in the litigation against the Board of Regents over their policy on closed sessions, which he feels are in direct violation of the Sunshine law. Vigil says, “It’s very important to Chicano students and all students in general that the simple reason that everything the Regents do, directly or indirectly affect us; we must be given a voice.'

ASUC Tri-exec. Jess Vigil in his office. Note large Chicano mural painted on walk The ASUC is taking the Regent case to court. The faculty federation of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) has endorsed ASUC in the case and has directed it’s full time attorney, John Kezer, to work with ASUC. Vigil said, "We are hoping to get a standing injunction so that the Regents can't hold “closed executive sessions”, he said. ASUC Accomplishments Many ASUC proposals were considered throughout the past year, however, it wasn’t until after the student elections in March, that some of the proposals were finalized. ASUC was involved in various activities related to the lettuce boycott. One of the major accomplishments was that of getting all head lettuce banned from the UMC and all University dormitories. The dorms were canvassed for the required 2000 signatures of dorm residents who wished to get rid of the head lettuce from the dorms. ASUC has also been influential in funding of minority groups. Vigil said, “For the first time, minority organizations will receive sufficient student fee funding on which to operate.”

Various other accomplishments of ASUC include the appointments of minority students to various joint boards, such as Joint Board on Student Finance. The Finance board allocates student fee monies to ASUC, Wardenburg Student Health Center, Recreation Athletics, UMC, and Cultural Events Board. The Finance board deals with approximately $2.4 and $2.7 million per year from student fee monies. Vigil said. There are currently two Chicanos on the board, Dave Madrid, ASUC Senator, and George Rivera, faculty appointee from the Sociology department Eileen Torres was appointed to the Cultural Events Board, which sponsors and finances cultural events such as Chicano awareness days, Black awareness days, rock concerts, and other cultural activities.