noticios-noticios-noticiPeralta, Roybal freed Anselmo Peralta and Raymund Roubal were each give one year probation after entering a plea of "Nolo Contendre” to the charge of accessory after the fact in the Ft. Lupton bombing case. The case stems from an incident on March 9, 1971, when an unknown person or persons deposited a charge of dynamite estimated to be four of five sticks in the unmanned police station of Ft. Lupton. In March 1972 the two former UMAS students were arrested and charged with unlawful use of explosives and destruction of property over $5OO, both felonies and a total of 28 years imprisonment upon conviction. The deal came at the March 28, (1973) trial of Raymund Roybal after Police Chief Nicoles failed to give a description of the assailant but said he assumed that he was a MexicanAmerican. District Attorney Don Miller, who sensationalized the indictment in his bid for reelection, did not attend. Bob Ray, an assistant for the Weld County district attorneys office in charge of the prosecution, said the reduced charge "appeared to be the proper disposition in the case". Both defendants continue to express their innocence of the charges but feared additional charges ifthey had not complied with the afforded disposition. Orona wins award Rita Delores Orona, a third year music major at CU, has been awarded the Wallace F. Fisk Memorial Scholarship for the 1973-74 academic year. A soloist singer, Rita was awarded the Scholarship in the amount of $BOO.OO based on her superior musicianship, creative ability, and musical scholarship. Rita sings opera in numerous foreign languages. She will give her junior year recital in Spanish on April 20 at 8:00 p.m. in the Music Hall. Rita will also participate in an opera performance on April 29 in which she will sing "La Traviata" (Italian). Both events are Tree and open to the public. T.A. raider pardoned Governor Bruce King of New Mexico has signed a certificate of "conditional pardon and conditional restoration to citizenship ' for Juan Valdez, deferring his imprisonment for the June 5, 1967. Tierra Amarilla courthouse raid. Valdez had exhausted all appeals and was to have begun serving concurrent terms of 210 years in the shooting of state policeman Nick Saiz and I-5 years in the false imprisonment of Deputy Sheriff Pete Jaramillo.