USLA teachin features Latin American reportby Yveline JowettDenunciations on Latin American political prisoners have been bountiful. Mary E. Harding, Mauricio Schoijet, Kent Tobiska and Martin Eder are aiming the ones who have spoken up against governmental expression in this part of the world.“Find a hiding place. Tonight is the harvest” Mary Harding overheard someone say in the middle of the night in La Paz during one of the political uproars she participated in. “And it has been so ever since. The Bolivian police and government, especially present Gen. Banzer’s regime, have pickedup, imprisoned and tortured all those who fight for their rights". After 14 years of work in Bolivia, Mary E. Harding, a nun from Massachusetts was deported because she held close contacts with political prisoners and with the Committee of Human Rights of the UN, and was to be a good source of information to the Bolivian government. She did not speak under torture, she did not speak “por las buenas” with “kindness". So Mary Harding was deported in 1973 as "pressures from the Church increased”. Harding talked of her experiences in Bolivia within a historical context as she was directly involved in the events of the time. She said she sees "no effective changes in the future of Bolivia. Names might change, but that will be all.” She attributes to the US the lags in Bolivia as “the US manipulates through economic ‘aid’ and CIAtype coups the present andfuture of Bolivia.” The panel held by Kent Tobiska and Martin Eder disappointed some members of the audience. Both talked on Uruguay, which they visited for one month along with other Latin American countries. “Their information was not concrete nor well conveyed, and they didn’t really seem to know what they were talking about" one person said. Tobiska and Eder spoke on how the United States holds "by the rope” the Uruguayan economy and referred to the Tupamaros and their suppression. They attributed US control of Uruguayan banks by a loan system, and this "can choke any economy.” Argentine speaker Mauricio Schoijet spoke on the many cases of repression held in his country, and denounced the governments of former presidents Generals Ongania and Lanusse to have schemed“violent abuses against political activists” and mentioned the "shameful and coward assassination of 16 political dissidents in Trelew last year. Schoijet has kept in close contact with a legal association dedicated to the defense of these prisoners, and has done translations of some of their poetry while in "spiritual agony”. Schoijet is now a professor at the Universidad de Mexico and will return to Argentina when the newly elected president Campora “calls me if he needs me”. Other Latin American nations were not mentioned on the panels but the situations in Brazil and Haiti have not been unheard of. “Red” Bishop Helder Camara from Recife, Brazil, has toured his country and other nations as Chile and France carrying the flag of Brazilianpolitical prisoners. Representatives of the Committee for the Freedom of Political Prisoners and the Restoration of Public Liberties in Haiti, headquartered in Mexico City, said that Haitian Foreign Minister Adrien Raymond's reply that only 400 opponents of the Haitian regime are in jail is probably true. “That’s because the others have starved to death or were murdered in cold blood” a spokesman of the committee told a correspondent of Tricontinental News Service.“Ten per cent of the prisoners die in the first few days under torture.” “The range of tortures in inconceivable beatings, mutilations of the genitals and the ears, complete withholding of food and water, introduction into the anus of a redhot rod, pulling out of fingernails,” they charged. This committee, as USLA and other organizations as well as many individuals are determined to inform the world about the injustices sponsored by governments that seek to pervade in power and follow their group interests.