Lo Academia de Falcon

Ricardo Falcon was once eulogized as a humanitarian, a man dedicated to Fighting 
injustice by praying for, working for, and finally dying for unity. He was the Weld County 
Chicano activist who was fatally shot in Orogrande, N. M., last August while on his way 
to the La Raza Unida party national convention in El Paso. Ricardo was distinct. The 
piquancy that marked his character is prevalent today, exuding throughout a free school 
in his name, La Academia Ricardo Falcon. In substance, it consists precisely of five 
classrooms, an art room, and a lunch and recreation room on loan from the summer-
vacated Brighton High School building, where approximately 85 Chicanos between the 
ages of six and 26 receive instruction. But more importantly, particularly for the 
participants, it marks the end of a vision and the beginning of a reality. Education and 
cultural awareness, incorporated inseparately and together underlie the motivation 
behind La Academia, according to one of its organizers, Mrs. Priscilla Falcon, Ricardo’s 
widow. “We want to give our Chicanitos a certain freedom to learn because they aren’t 
learning in the public school systems here,” she stated. But the idea of a free school in 
Weld County is nothing new, Mrs. Falcon said, Rather she referred back to 1968 when 
Ricardo wanted to transport Chicanos from the area to Escuela Tlatelolco, another free 
school housed in the Crusade for Justice in Denver. She said La Academia grew out of 
constant shouts of inadequacy, neglect, and discrimination that have been voiced at the 
public school system by Chicanos in Weld County for a number of years. Much 
emphasis has been placed on the exceedingly high disproportionate number of Chicano 
dropouts in the Brighton-Fort Lupton area. (Statistics from the superintendent’s office of 
the Brighton School District revealed that in the ‘72-73 school year, 43.8% or 24 of 62 
dropouts were Chicano while the total percentage of Chicanos in grades seven through 12 was 17.4% or 398 of 2,252.) 
(In Fort Lupton, 85% or 23 of 27 dropouts this past school year were Chicanos while Chicanos 
make up about 35% or 245 of the population in grades seven through 12. Over nine 
percent (9.3%) of the Chicanos in Fort Lupton dropped out or about 10 times the figure 
of non-Chicano dropouts (.9%), according to Dr. Fred Holmes, director of community 
services for the Colorado Department of Education based on information provided by 
the school district in a routine annual fall report.) Mrs. Falcon said the plans to 
implement Ricardo’s idea in the Brighton-Fort Lupton area began last November while 
she was at the trial of her husband’s slayer in New Mexico. The actual ground work for 
the school was layed early this spring when Weld County parents were solicited with 
leaflets explaining the concepts of the proposed school’s summer program. The parents 
that responded provided La Academia with some the academic history of their children, 
grades and teachers comments. “When they got here, we knew what the deficiencies of 
each student,” Mrs. Falcon said. She said La Academia reflects, these concerns in 
offering an alternative to the “established” school system. The instruction, by collegeage 
Chicanos, some with degrees, others working on them, includes and transcends the 
traditional subjects of math, reading, and science. The Weld County students are also 
schooled in Chicano history, and Mexican song and dance. Six of the older students in 
La Academia are being prepared for the General Educational Development (GED) test, 
which when passed, certifies the recipient with a high school diploma. But the 
instruction extends beyond these typical teaching norms. La Academia draws its 
strength from the cultural identity, awareness, and pride that is expressed, incorporated, 
and reinforced in the educational setting, something completely new for most of these students. 
In fact, for many of the students, most of whom are marked in the public school files as lacking self reliance, 
being lethargic learners and even hating themselves, according to Mrs. Falcon, this 
classroom milieu has improved their interests in learning and has developed a new 
penchant for education. “We’re only open Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, but the 
kids like it so much they want to come to school five days a week, and this is the 
summer,” she said. The students are divided into four classes by ages, with two 
instructors to each. The instructors, all volunteers, most hold part time jobs in addition to 
teaching, encourage inneraction among the students. “In our room, we arrange the 
students in working units of six,” Mrs. Falcon, also an instructor, revealed. “At one table, 
four are slow learners, and two are fast ones and so we have the fast ones help the 
slower ones and this seems to work better than if just the teacher helps the slow ones." 
“They seem to learn faster and communicate better among themselves.” Paradoxically, 
with all this inneraction, disciplinary problems are minimal at the school. And if some do 
arise, the whole class finds the solution. Mrs. Falcon could remember only one 
example, Robert, “Last week he did something and so the class sat down and together 
decided if he misbehaved again, he couldn’t go swimming, with us the next time. He 
likes to swim and hasn’t acted up since.” La Academia operates strictly on donations. 
When asked about finances, Mrs. Falcon candidly replied, “I really don’t know how we 
do it” She said there were no building costs for the summer and other costs have been 
minimal. "We’ve received most of our supplies from anonymous donations,” she said, 
referring to the books, paper and pencils used in the everyday confines of a classroom. 
She cited Denver radio station KHOW, owned by Doubleday Broadcasting Co., an 
affiliate of Doubleday Publishing Co., who recently donated 30 books to the
school. The only major costs for the school thus far have been transportation and 
lunches for those who can’t provide their own. Mrs. Falcon said donations have helped, 
but most of the instructors have paid out of their own pockets to transport students from 
towns as far away as Platteville, 14 miles, and Greeley, 30 miles. La Academia has 
submitted two proposals to private agencies in an effort to secure funding. The results 
are pending. It is currently negotiating for a facility to replace the high school which 
expires at the end of the summer, which was unexpected up to the week before classes 
began. “We were considering operating the school on a farm in Brighton where a few of 
the instructors live,” Mrs. Falcon said, “before the Brown Berets here in Weld County 
negotiated with the Brighton School District for the building. Mrs. Falcon stressed the 
fact her husband had been considered a controversial figure, and a “radical” by various 
bureaucrats in the county. She said many expressed indignation with the name of the 
school. “Some of them thought we were going to teach how to make bombs, and other 
things like that, and so they worked towards discrediting the school.” Negotiations are 
now going on with the Grange, another building between Fort Lupton and Brighton for a fall occupancy. 
Mrs. Falcon and another instructor at the school, Dan Rodriques projected future enrollment to be highly 
concentrated with dropouts. They also expect to teach some parolees. Rodriquez said 
he expects a fall enrollment of about 200 because “there is a need for alternative 
education for Chicanos because Chicanos have systemically been denied” in the public 
school system. He plans to recruit dropouts and teach them to enjoy school, because, 
“this is a new environment that does not discriminate and they can identify with." He 
also aspires to increasing the curriculum by providing an undergraduate program 
offering college courses. La Academia Ricardo Falcon attempts to instruct bilingually, 
but the instructors readily admit often the students are more efficient in Spanish than 
they are in English. It doesn’t bother them. As Rodriquez said, “Most of our students are enrolled 
in the public school system, and most have had problems with reading, speech, and 
general learning because of a varied background and because people haven’t taken the 
time to help them.” La Academia Ricardo Falcon is taking the time. 
