Boulder march on Safeway draws 250.

by Evelyn Martinez

Shouting chants of “Boycott Safeway!” and "Viva la Huelga,” nearly 300 protestors marched to Safeway store at 28th and Arapahoe Saturday in support of the lettuce boycott and protest of Safeway’s continued practice of purchasing iceberg (head) lettuce. The demonstration was organized by the Farm Labor Task Force and UMAS students at the university, although volunteers from ASUC, Women's Liberation, St. Thomas Aquinas Church, and many community volunteers participated in the march. Before the march, supporters gathered at Farrand Field on the university campus to observe members of the Teatro de Ustedes, the farmworker teatro group from Alamosa, as they performed various skits dramatizing the farmworker struggle. Magdaleno Avila, UFW organizer, addressed the demonstrators and called for continued support of the lettuce and grape boycotts and the continued boycott against Safeway.

Avila said the plight of the farmworker should be a concern on the part of everyone, whether he be brown, black or white. “It affects the poor and the young; it’s everybody’s problem,” Avila said. The march finally began from Farrand Field, where the few hundred supporters peacefully assembled to form a line two blocks long, carrying a variety of banners displaying different aspects of the farmworkers struggle. The march proceeded through campus, up Broadway and downtown Boulder to Pearl Street and south on 28th St. At the 28th St. point, the demonstrators proceeded to the King Soopers store at the Crossroads Shopping Center, where they shouted chants as “King Soopers, you’re next!," as they filed by. The demonstrators then proceeded to the Safeway store, where they set up a picket line that stretched as far north as Arapahoe Ave., and south on 28th St. The demonstrators peacefully walked back and forth along the sidewalks, shouting chants of protest over

Safeway’s purchase of nonUFW iceberg (head) lettuce. Jose Ortega, spokesman for UMAS was told by police at Safeway, that “no one will get arrested as long as the picket lines keep moving and as long as the driveway entrances to the Safeway parking lot aren’t blocked by the demonstrators." The demonstrators complied to the order and there were no arrests. As soon as the demonstrators arrived at Safeway, store manager Dean Howell and an unidentified accomplice, walked into the Safeway parking lot, silently confronted the demonstrators, and continued to pace back and forth in front of the picket lines and make their rounds of the parking lot. Vandalism reported After the demonstrators had protested for nearly four hours, Howell and another Safeway official accused some of the demonstrators of vandalizing the store, in which several shopping carts were reported to have been filled with meat, cottage cheese, Coors beer and other merchandise. Howell said
someone had piled the merchandise into the carts and emptied Mr. Clean and other detergents on them, causing an estimated $2OO damage. The Denver Post reported falsely of the vandalism incidents in which they reported that 16 shopping carts had been filled with merchandise, as reported to them by a Sgt. Ray Smith of the Boulder police department. Smith also reported to the Post that some demonstrators allegedly harrassed customers, customers, thrusting leaflets in their faces and blocking entry to the store if they didn't take

the leaflets. The Post also reported that the police department received several citizen’s complaints over the demonstration, but arrests weren’t made because Safeway officials refused to prosecute. Boycott Support Felipe Martinez and Ben Romero, organizers from the Farm Labor Task Force, felt the demonstration was a success, although they expected more people. They have encouraged people who are interested in helping to support the boycott to stop by UMC 187 and offer their services.

Boulder City Manager Archie Twitchell answers UMAS students’ questions. From left to right are city councilpersons Tim Fuller, Janet Roberts, Twitchell, and Ruth CorrelL