Affirmative Action Program called “ineffective”

Prof. Anthony Lozano of the Spanish department has charged that the university Affirmative Action Program (AAP) is ineffective. Lozano said, “The program has not been effective; I don't see any substantial increase in the hiring of Chicano professors and faculty.” Last August, the department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) ordered the university to comply to current HEW guidelines in regards to the hiring, placement, and general utilization of women and minorities. The university responded by hiring Mrs. Barbara Jones as full-time Affirmative Action Program director to initiate a plan. Ten months after the HEW order, the university remains without an approved plan, although portions of the plan have been implemented. Professor Lozano maintains that various instances indicate that the departments are not following the law. Lozano, who serves as an Affirmative Action task force advisor to the AAP director, said that each department initiates the recruitment and hiring of minorities. “The people in that department have to take a real active role in the recruitment and hiring of minorities and women, or the program will be lost as in the beginning," he said. According to Mrs. Jones, the purpose of the plan is to “recruit more minorities and women at all levels and make employment more equitable for those already here.” The total number of minority employees hired at the university is 6.5 per cent. Women are counted twice as minorities, and the statistics haven’t been broken down to indicate what percentage of the minorities are Chicano, Black, Indian, Asian. The percentage of minorities in the university administration total 1.4 percent, faculty, 4.9 percent; and staff, 7.8 percent. Since women are counted twice, the total averages out to only 6.5 percent minorities. The new plan asks for the recruitment of more minorities and women at the staff and faculty level vacancies. Current plans are being evaluated and grouped and will eventually result in overall, institutional goals and timetables. According to Jones, the Affirmative Action Plan is behind at all levels because of the staff situation at the University Personnel Office. The university has been without a personnel director for a few months, which has slowed up the advancement of the plan, she said. “The freeze on the student enrollment has also affected the plan,” she said. "Because of the freeze, there are no new positions or vacancies available.” Mrs. Jones said much of the fault for the low number of new minority faculty members lies with the varying departments. “We have what is known as the “White-male buddy system,” Jones said, in which present staff members inform their friends of the vacancies before openings are announced publicly. Jones said that the hiring of Chicanos and other minorities for faculty positions is determined by each department. Before their department chairman can hire a non-minority, or male, he has to demonstrate to the Affirmative Action Plan director “that all efforts were made to contact women and minorities for the position.” “No appointment can be approved for the white male without the documentation of the efforts to hire a minority,” Jones said. However, Jones said that “some departments still insist on hiring the most qualified,” implying that most minority applicants for university positions are deficient in some respects. Under provisions of the Affirmative Action Plan, the rule has been changed to a qualified person who is a minority.” No training programs for minority administrators are currently in the works, but Jones has suggested the implementation of training programs as career ladders to help the minority employees advance on the employment scale. In addition, the maternity leave provision has already been implemented. Women staff members can now use their sick leave during, pregnancy, rather than leave without pay. ‘‘The current grievance procedure must also be improved,” Jones said. The final Affirmative Action Plan will go before the Board of Regents at their next meeting for final approval. The plan will then be published and distributed after the first week of September.