Our Chicano Heritage
Santa Maria de Guadelupe
Noted in the folklore of both Mexico and the Southwestern United States is the legend of the Virgin of Guadclupe. She has been referred to as The Most Holy Virgin Mary, Our Lady of Guadelupe, the Queen of Mexico, and the Empress of the Americas. Yet how many Chicanos are aware of the true facts behind the legend? In January, 1531, on a hilltop in the Mexican state of Tepeyacac, a vision appeared to an Indian by the name of Juan Diego. The woman who appeared to
Diego told him that she was the true mother of God, and she instructed Diego to build a Church on that very spot. Diego’s reports to the bishop Don Fray de Zumarrag were dismissed with disbelief, for the bishop wanted a tangible sign to prove Diego’s claim. Diego returned home very discouraged, and found that his uncle, Juan Bernardino, was dying, and that Bernardino would need a priest soon. Diego set out back to town to get a priest. Along the way Diego was
once again confronted by the Virgin, who asked him why he had taken another route back to town. Diego explained that his Uncle lay dying and that Diego had to find a priest quickly. The Virgin told Diego not to worry about his Uncle, but to return to the spot where she had first appeared where a sign would confirm Diego’s claim. When he arrived at the hilltop once more, Diego found dozens of roses blooming in the cold January weather where only cactus and weeds had grown before.
Again the Virgin appeared to Juan Diego and she herself gathered the roses and placed them inside his coat, instructing Diego to take them to the bishop. Diego immediately went to the cathedral, where he was refused admittance. He waited patiently outside. The Bishop’s servants saw the roses and tried to steal them, but found that when they attempted to take the roses, the roses became only a painting. With much skepticism the bishop agreed to see Diego one final time. As Juan showed the roses to the bishop there appeared inside the coat a picture of not only the roses but of the Virgin as she had appeared to Diego.
Upon seeing this the bishop immediately fell to his knees and begged forgiveness for his doubting the Virgin. The group then set out for the hilltop to plan the building of the church and to Juan Diego’s home to check on his uncle’s condition. Much to Diego’s amazement, he found his uncle up and well, and had been so since the hour of the Virgin’s second appearance. The Virgin had appeared to Bernardino and had cured him. The Virgin told Bernardino that the most holy image of the immaculate Virgin was to be called Santa Maria de Guadelupe. (Watch for the next edition of El Diario for the conclusion of our tale.)
