Board candidates urge registrationTwo Chicano candidates for the Boulder Valley School District Board are urging all Boulder Chicanos who are not registered to vote, or have moved since their last registration, to do so before the deadline of March 31. The two candidates, Pete Garcia and Richard Garcia, feel they can win on the Chicano vote, but it will require a wide-scale registration drive to make all of the voters eligible. Phil Hernandez, a campaign worker for Pete Garcia, said he feels there are more than 850 Chicanos not registered but who are eligible to vote in this election. Last week Hernandez asked the county commissioners to set up a registration booth on the University campus. County Clerk Henry Putnam denied this request, but he has agreed to leave the registration offices in Broomfield, Lafayette and Louisville open from 7 to 9 pm on March 21 through 23. This is in addition to the regular office hours of 8 to 4:30 daily. “If you have moved since you last registered or voted, you must check with the county clerk’s offices,” Richard Garcia told El Diario. The Garcias are the only Chicanos of 20 candidates vying for four seats open in this district. Richard Garcia is a candidate for district B and Pete Garcia is running in district F. Richard Garcia is a University student and director of the Migrant Action Program. He is formerly of Monte Vista, Colorado and is married to Elizabeth. The couple has four children. He has cited the low percentage of minority employment in the district school system as one of the key issues of his campaign. “There are 1,022 employees in the Boulder Valley schools and only 41 are Chicanos,” he said. Most of those who are employed are either janitors or are working in schools where there are few Chicanitos, he added. Another key issue in Richard's campaign is the high drop out rate of Chicanos. “We already know why Chicanos tend to drop out of school; I fail to see why at the present time school board officials are reluctant to resolve the situation.” In the past the school board has been insensitive to the needs of the Chicano community. Richard feels his presence on the board would change this. Richard has had experience in the Boulder school system before. He has worked in the Headstart and Title 1 programs. Last summer he was director of the experimental Migrant Title 1 and Migrant Summer Program at Lincoln Elementary. The program was deemed a great success and has been funded for another year. Richard has some definite objectives he would implement during his term if elected. Theyinclude: making curriculum more minority-oriented; implementation of a bilingual program in the district; and waiving of fees for extracurricular activities. Richard’s campaign organizers have called for an organizational meeting at Hellenis 201 at 7 tonight (Tuesday). He is running independent and does need help in all areas including financing. Donations for the campaign can be . ft in UMC 187, in care of Molly Moore. Pete Garcia is also not a stranger to politics or to the school systems. Pete is a native of Denver and is married to Vera. They have six children, three of school age. Pete is a veteran of a hotly contested campaign for the city council seat for Denver’s district nine. He lost to Eugene DiManna by 235 votes in an election which drew 8,500 votes. For 10 years, Pete Garcia was a Catholic priest and left the clergy to be married. He is presently employed with the Boulder County Mental Health Center as a community out reach worker. Pete has received support from a coalition which is running candidates in all four districts. The coalition is helping him with some of the expenses of his campaign. A graduate of St. Thomas Theological Seminary, Pete has taught at St. Andrews and Mullen high schools in Denver.He has also been involved at other levels in dealing with the educational systems. “In La Junta, I instigated a change in the school district. It was a Mormon controlled; we organized and beat the incumbent in an election for school board president,” he said. Pete said he is very concerned with what he calls the “push out” rate. “There is a breakdown between the schools and the parents,” he said. “If we are to change the drop out rate for Chicanos, we must do something about this.” There are 23,000 students in the school district and only one man charged with investigating truancies, suspensions and drop outs. “I work with him in my job," Pete said, “I know he simply cannot handle all of these kinds of problems for the entire district.”Along with the "push out" problem, Pete said he feels there are several other key issues, such as: the need for a bilingual program (he and Richard Garcia are on a committee to set up such a program in Boulder), minority employment including women, priorities in budget spending and redistribution of district resources. “All schools in the district are not receiving the same benefits schools in the higher income areas have better facilities than those in rural or low income areas,” he said. He said he feels the present school board is a rubber stamp for the school administrate'' “This should be the opposite he said. “A vote for a Chicano is vote for victory,” Pete cot eluded. If Chicanos are to mal the difference in this election they must get out and register he said.