Strikes cripple Puerto Rico

SAN JUAN, July 11 (TNS) —Thousands of workers marched today to La Fortaleza headquarters of Puerto Rico’s colonial government to demand the withdrawal of 3100 National Guard troops now occupying fire stations, power plants and water works throughout the island. As today's demonstration reached its destination, colonial governor Raphael Hernandez Colon was lifted out of La Fortaleza by helicopter and military reinforcements were sent into the area. Hernandez Colon last Friday declared a State of Emergency in the face of strikes by sanitary workers, firemen, electric power and water service employees, and had ordered the National Guard to break through the picket lines and maintain the service. The last time the colonial administration found it necessary to declare a State of Emergency was in 1950, when it called out troops to suppress a nationalist insurrection which left scores dead and wounded and hundreds jailed. The intervention of the National Guard has failed to break the strike. The sanitary workers settled on Sunday and went back to work the next day, but resistance among the firemen and the power and water workers seems to have hardened and they are gaining support from other workers. More than 60 different unions and workers organizations were represented in today’s march on La Fortaleza, and according to one reliable estimate there are now a total of 20,000 workers in diverse industries who have gone out on strike. The main theme of the march was that if the troops were not withdrawn, the island would be faced with a general strike. Puerto Rico is already close to paralysis. More than 100 factories have been forced to close down, major cities are without electricity, telephone communications have been disrupted across the island and the water supply is precarious everywhere. An effective sabotage campaign against the occupied utilities has contributed to the disruptions. Shots and tear gas From the moment the heavily armed troops broke through the firemen’s picket lines last Friday afternoon they have been taunted, harassed and exhorted by workers and the population in general. “It's my brothers that you’re going to kill,” shouted one man as troops with fixed bayonets and bullet-proof vests marched into the main fire station in downtown Santurce. Two firemen received bayonet wounds during this first encounter; the strikers and a large crowd of sympathizers retaliated by pelting the nervous troops with empty cans and bottles. Two shots and teargas grenades dispersed the crowd. “The area around the station resembled a war zone as bullets flew and fires raged,” reported the English-language San Juan Star. Stores owned by Cuban counter-revolutionaries and U.S. corporations have been damaged or destroyed by firebombs. There were false reports yesterday that the utilities workers strike had been settled after union president Juan G. Marrero reached a secret agreement with the management and the Governor. When the terms of the agreement became known later in the day, however, a meeting of the union's membership unanimously rejected the agreement, which made such "concessions” as a one percent increase in the yearly Christmas bonus. The firemen are adamant in their demands for new firefighting equipment and more personnel, insisting that they cannot do their job with the existing equipment and manpower. They are also demanding a pay increase to $5OO a month to eliminate the disparities between their current salaries and those of other public employees. Leaders of both unions, representing a total of 8500 workers, are in hiding to avoid court orders demanding their appearance and that the workers return to their jobs. Newspapers reflecting U.S. business interests on the island are solidly behind the repressive measures taken by the new governor, who had campaigned as a representative of the more liberal of the two parties that favor maintaining Puerto Rico's colonial status. The worker’s movement has interpreted the action as a fundamental challenge to their right to strike and there is evidence of growing militancy and unity within the ranks. If the government does not yield soon, the situation could deteriorate. The national guard has received orders to shoot “in self-defense,” and Guard commander General Fernando Chardon said he would consider asking for reinforcements from the “Federal Government.”