Archbishop evicts escuela Chicanos

Archbishop James Peter Davis of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Santa Fe is 
evicting a Chicano group from the former Agua Fria convent. He is giving the group 10 
days to vacate the convent. The group, El Comite Central de los Barrios de Santa Fe, 
has been operating a school in the church-owned building under agreement with the 
Archdiocese. Davis said in a letter to the Very Rev. Ramon Aragon, vicar-general end 
director of lndo-Hispano Affairs in the archdiocese, that "unless possession of the 
property is restored to the archdiocese, legal action will be taken against both the users 
and us. A spokesman for the Chicanos, Sam Leyba, said the group would leave 
peacefully, but added, “We want to make sure it's legal.”
Escuela Tonantzin, a Chicano school located in the former Santa Maria Convent on 
Agua Fria Rd., Santa Fe, opened its door to Chicanos on June 4 of this year. The 
school had a successful summer session, and the fall session was scheduled to begin 
on Monday, Sept. 10. An extended gunbattle with Santa Fe police and state police 
officers occurred Sept. 3, leaving a 19-year-old girl dead and several policemen and 
Chicanos injured (see the Oct. 12 El Diario). Escuela Tonantzin was' established to 
serve La Raza. Those concerned knew that even the Chicano teachers discriminate 
against Chicanos in the Santa Fe school system, and also do not teach Chicanos any 
sense of identity or pride and deny them theirlanguage and culture. Gov. Bruce King and 
Lt. Gov. Roberto Mondragon supported the school and the people from the barrios worked very 
hard to get the school ready for opening. The police attack on Escuela Tonantzin left the school 
in shambles and left many questions unanswered concerning the conduct of the police that night. Reports 
indicate that police were destroying anything they could find. The attack seemed to be a 
conspiracy to destroy and close down the school. Reportedly D.A. Joe Castellano once 
threatened to close down the school, and after the police raid he again said that he was 
going to do everything in his power to close down Tonantzin.

