Hernandez speaks to MAP

Phil Hernandez, a candidate for City Council, delivered a speech at the Migrant Action 
Program general meeting on the 17th. One of Hernandez’s major point for reform will lie 
in the City Advisory Committees. These committees, according to Hernandez, should 
function in an advisory or policy making capacity. One problem is that few, if any, of 
these boards are functioning in any capacity. An example of the above non-functioning 
committees, Hernandez cited the recreational busing problem encountered by families 
in low income area. A complaint was made by one individual about the need for busing. 
Finally, after being ignored, he was told that they would have busing for the children to 
the swimming sites only at 7:30 a.m. The option offered was a "take it or leave it.” 
Another example cited by Hernandez, was one concerning the fencing of a creek area 
in another low income housing area. A response from the Housing Authority came 
about three months later. The tenants were not informed at all, but the decision by the 
Housing Authority was to fence area within the housing site. Hernandez is definite that if 
someone does not attempt to help stabilize the rent situation in Boulder, a "middle class 
Ghetto" would eventually take over. "People can’t afford to live in Boulder and are being 
forced to move out," stressed Hernandez. Hernandez will work to get low income 
housing. Another item on Phil’s list of objectives is to aid women and minorities in 
employment and other rights which are so often neglected. When asked how he could 
help the minority community in Boulder, Hernandez readily replied that through the 
educational need, he would attempt to aid the minority student as well as the rest of the 
student population. Housing in this respect is also a necessary obstacle to overcome. 
The Financial Aid situation is one that Phil feels he should look into. Hernandez does 
not believe that the packets are keeping up with the cost of living in Boulder. In the area 
of employment, Hernandez will attempt to persuade the Council to adopt a good 
affirmative plan with efforts to hire women and minorities. If this succeeds, it would 
serve as a model for all industries and businesses in an aggressive recruitment of 
minorities and women. Hernandez’s plan of action will be to relate to everyone and not 
to isolate one specific group. Hernandez continued to explain that many individuals are 
affected by the same i’ems.

