Will you recruit a brotherParity is still an issue There are those who will tell you it is not, and there are those probably the majority who don't even know what it means. Parity is the issue that UMAS was founded upon and is the one issue that we cannot compromise. Parity, in the case of the University, is equal representation for minorities. In the case of Chicanos, it means having 12 percent of the population at this statesupported institution in relation to our 1 2 percent of this state’s tax payers. There is not a Chicano student on this campus who is here because the Board of Regents, President Thieme or the rest of the administration wanted him here. We are all here because of men like Ricardo Falcon, and the original eight founders of UMAS who kicked in the door of this racist institution. It was not an accident that for the first 100 years this University existed Chicanos were excluded. Every year since UMAS was formed, the students pushed for increased admissions. Sometimes we lost and other times we won, but never did we accept what was “given” to us. We have our foot in the door, but if we relax or become too comfortable to fight, that door will slam on the faces of our race who have yet to gain entry. This year the University has given us a commitment for 400 new students for summer and fall of 1973. If we retain all of our students, this will bring the total of UMAS students to about 1,200. Parity on this campus should be 3,000 plus, we cannot settle for less. Supposedly, we have 900 students on this campus. Everyone of us knows of at least one person who would like to come to CU. If during Spring Break we all went home and recruited one student, we would have a legitimate demand to make upon the University to admit those 900 students. There are those who are satisfied to bring the 400 the University has "given" us, I say let’s bring as many people who are qualified and are willing to come. If there are only 400 students who want to come then there’s no problem, but if there are 401 and the University says chale to that one, then every Chicano on this campus must rise in support of that one student. Believe it or not, that is why we are here. Ricardo Falcon has been quoted as saying, "We ought to get it on" Well I say we should get it on, and go out during Spring Break and find every Chicano in this state who wants to come up here. If we don’t, we have not only let down those who brought us here, but we have let down our brothers and sisters who wanted to come here. There will be a meeting for all those interested in recruiting during break at Wednesday at 12:30. Si se puede