cartas-cartas-cartas-cartas-cartas-La Chicana Becky Marrujo’s article La Chicana ‘barefoot and pregnant?’ touched upon a badly neglected area. In general, I agree with her opinion that Chicanas have allowed themselves to be stereotyped and dominated to the extent of denying their individuality. The problem here is social conditioning. It’s time Chicanas shed the idea of roles. Many men and women view themselves as functioning within roles and therefore are afraid to function as human beings as persons capable of accepting responsibility for their behavior. Instead, many let the roles define their behavior. Our goal should not be to collectively define a new role for the Chicana but to make her feel that she has the right as a person to fulfill her educational, sexual, and economic potential without apologies and without fear. Gloria Hightower March 22 ASUC veto At the April 3 ASUC Senate meeting, the Executive found it necessary to veto the Clearinghouse budget request of $l5OO for a professional secretary. The reason for this veto is based on the Executive’s reluctance to establish the precedence of funding professional secretaries for student groups. The usual procedure is to provide student Work/Study personnel. Clearinghouse has been allocated $630.00 for two full year secretaries. The Executive feels that in the future there will be a need for professional secretaries, but in light of the scarcity of funds, this is not the year to establish such a precedent. The veto was in no way a reflection on Clearinghouse. The Executive recognizes the excellent work they have done for the community. They have been allocated two full-year Work/Study secretaries withwhich they can carry on their meaningful work. Paul Boetcher Patty Price Jess Vigil ASUC Executives Crusade Justice, herself, must have let you borrow her blindfold again. For again you serve as prosecutor, judge, and jury for the public. Do you give the people in our communities no credit for having common sense or ability to think and appraise events that affect their lives for themselves? Do you believe people are not able to detect your attempts to persuade and distort their reasoning to benefit your vested political interests? We, the parents of students enrolled at Escuela Y Colegio Tlatelolco and residents of the Chicano community, have read your “news" articles regarding the slaying of Luis “Junior" Martinez and other police oppressive actions on March 17, 1973. We’ve not been amazed to find that the Rocky Mountain News has not deviated from its customary biased portrayal of events. But we cannot let you continue to think that our communities are swallowing your yellow Journalism "journalism devoted to sensationalism at the expense of social responsibility.” We will not allow your so-called “facts" to go undisputed. At your own admittance, your "Investigation" did not include interviews with the Chicanos who were there that night, with a single exception; you were unable to find witnesses among residents in nearby apartments; and your conclusions were "pieced together." Yet, you have concluded that there were "no police wrongs in shootout." There are a lot of "seems," “alleges," and “appears” in your articles leading to quite a convictional determination. For instance, "The incident doesn't appear to have been in any way an ambush of police.” How many police officers manDistrict 2? And how many officers were at 15th and Downing by 12:45 A.M. on the 17th to “exercise restraint”? Why did it require the questioning of seventy-two police officers? So many more of your words are articulately phrased to convince the public that your “investigation” findings reflect the truth. This is not the first time you depict events subjectively, but recognizably it is one of your most determined efforts to-date. Did Richard O’Reilly ever meet or converse with Luis? In his article of April 1, he states that Luis was “a likeable youth with an I.Q. of 100.” How do you determine a dead man’s 1.Q., and what criteria is used by your staff to determine his social acceptance and contributions? And furthermore, what does this irrelevant piece of information contribute to the fact that Luis was pursued without provocation by an armed “15 year veteran of the force” and that today Luis is dead? Luis was "likeable" and Steven Snyder is “popular.' These descriptions in themselves demonstrate your assessment criteria for human worth. Another thing, you've made such an issue of Luis’ “troubles with law and with liquor.” The citations you noted in themselves demonstrate the extent to which our youth and other residents an harassed and persecuted by police in our communities What you failed to mention, however, were not only the many times Luis was arrested but also the police beatings he received with those arrests. Or were these "facts" not mentioned in your “pertinent public documents”? Other aspects about Luis and about his life were not included in those documents and are no public record to be twisted andmanipulated to portray hint as being the type person you and the police would want people to believe he was. How much more can you attempt to say about him to justify killing him? Those of us who knew him respected and loved him; those of us who were part of his life have lost a part of our own in losing him, though his beliefs and courage remain with us; those of us who read and witness your defamation of character not only Luis’ but our other victims of violence as well we, the parents of Chicano youth and children, will not fail them by altering our commitment to seek and work for the self-determination and liberation of all oppressed people. You will have noted that we, also, refrain from giving you more information. We will provide whatever information we have to those attorneys representing our civil and human rights and no one else. We assure you that in spite of, and to an extent because of, institutions such as yours which attempt to suppress our dignity, culture, and lives in an, to use your own words, “Anglo's society" are more determined than ever to continue Escucla y Colegio Tlatelolco. Symbolically, our school was named after a plaza in Mexico City, where in October, 1968, students actively protesting social injustice and poverty conditions in Mexico andpeople residing in the plaza were massacred by the militia. Tlatelolco has been stained with student blood again in another part of Aztlan, and again at the hands of the militia. Venceremos! Las Familias de Tlatelolco