Colorado farmworkers call strike

Farmworkers under United Farmworkers Union (UFW) in the San Luis Valley and the small area of Center, Colorado walked out of the lettuce fields last week, striking against the Mel Finerman Lettuce Company. Finerman, wealthy lettuce grower, also owns land in Oxnard, California and in Arizona, where other UFW workers are currently on strike. Richard Longoria of the Denver UFW office confirmed last Monday’s report that the UFW farmworkers had walked out of the fields as a result of the Finerman Company’s refusal to negotiate with the workers. Longoria said the walkout will definitely have some effect against the Finerman, Company “but the the hardest effect against the Finerman Company, “but the hardest Longoria said the impact of the walkout hasn’t been as great yet because not all of the workers have arrived, yet, “and most of the workers who are there are now doing the weeding and hoeing.” Earlier in the day, a press conference was held in Denver, in which UFW spokesman Leroy Maes explained why farmworkers are striking against Finerman. According to Maes, the Finerman Company voluntarily signed a contract with the

UFW, which included protection against unjust firing practices, a union hiring hall, medical and life insurance, and pesticide control. The contract expired May 6 of this year and the Finerman Company agreed to extend the contract during the period of negotiations, Maes said. However, after a month of negotiations, Finerman and the UFW did not reach an agreement on the new contract, and on June 6, negotiations were terminated at the company’s demand. In the other Finerman interests in Arizona and Oxnard, California, Finerman fired the only employees working at that time as cabbage cutters and packers in Oxnard, and replaced them with strike breakers, and at the fields were surrounded by guards, according to Maes. Strikes were then organized in Oxnard and the Salinas Valley, and are still in progress. According to Longoria, Finerman is also accused of not complying with the child labor laws of Colorado. “He has eleven and twelve year old kids working out in the fields,” Longoria said. “We are currently trying to speak to the labor investigators at the Department of Labor to see if we can force him to comply to the child labor provisions,” Longoria said. Boycott Hurts Stores In other new developments,

Longoria said he has been informed through his central office that “A&P store officials in the Chicago, New Jersey, and New York City areas, are fully cooperating with the UFW and have “given in”; they have taken grapes and lettuce off their market. “Safeway stores in Canada are also fully cooperating; It’s either UFW products or nothing at all,” Longoria said. Safeway stores have not yet responded in the DenverBoulder regions to indicate the effect of the picketing of Safeway stores, although nearly 16,000 Safeway shoppers have been turned away in the Denver area since the boycott began, and approximately 4,500 turned away in the Boulder area. In California, Safeway responded by appealing through advertising in the major California newspapers, saying “Safeway believes in the rights of farmworkers to free elections in farm labor negotiations and the right to secret ballot elections." Dean Howell, store manager of Safeway at the Arapahoe Shopping Center in Boulder has refused to comment about any effect of the picketing of his store, which is picketed every Saturday and some weekdays by concerned university students and community volunteers.
