Chicanos role in ASUC

Four Chicano students have thus far filed petitions for the upcoming Associated 
Students of the University of Colorado (ASUC) October elections. It is of great 
importance to all minority groups on campus that these people get elected. Until 
October of 1972 there was very little Chicano input into this student government. It was 
run by people who were highly conservative and who were generally unwilling to allot 
the money requested for Chicano and other minority groups. Before the October 
primary elections of '72 a group of five Chicano students decided that it was time to right 
the wrongs that were committed against the Chicano groups. They campaigned 
vigorously and were able to sweep these elections. These Chicano senatorial 
candidates then aligned themselves with a similar thinking group and formed a coalition, 
New Directions Coalition (NDC). There followed a successful campaign for the Senate 
seats in which all the Chicano hopefuls gained a senatorial slot. It became apparant, after a few months, that there 
was still a need for more Chicano senators because of the constant hassles between 
the NDC and the moderates on the senate. The March '73 elections proved very 
worthwhile to the Chicano politicos. They were able to gain more seats on the senate 
and also the student body elected a tri-executive that contained a Chicano exec. At this 
time the Chicano NDC had a majority in the senate and were then able to correct some 
of the injustices which the prior senate had done. These senators were able to allot the 
money requested by minority groups. The hard work of some of the Senators resulted in 
the total observation of the head lettuce boycott on campus which placed the University 
in a neutral position in the dispute between the UFW and the Teamsters Union. It is now 
necessary for all Chicanos to participate in these elections and to give support to the next 
Chicano Senatorial slate. Since the early days of UMAS the University administrators have constantly 
told the members to work within the system to achieve the needs of the group. When Chicanos began 
to gain entrance to these highly held positions in the University bureaucracy, the University started finding 
discrepencies in the student activities (i.e. the recent financial hassles). Chicanos must 
continue to break these barriers down and open die doors wide for others to walk 
through. It is imperative that Chicanos hold these seats in the Senate that will soon be 
vacated by their brothers. Chicanos must win these senate seats in the name of 
Chicano progress. The Chicanos are too far in the University doors to suffer a setback 
which would cost them much.

