FARAH strike , boycott little known in Colorado
The strike and boycott by Farah Pants Company employees in Texas have received little publicity in normally aware Colorado. Employees at Farah have been striking for almost a tear at plants in San Antonio, El Paso and Victoria, Texas. The basic issue behind the strike is William F. Farah’s refusal to allow the unionization of Farah employees. The workers complain of low wages, no job security, impossible production quotas, unfair treatment of women, and the lack of real worker benefits. Farah’s •reply is his assertion that non-union free enterprise can be successful, and he refuses to negotiate with the strikers. While negotiations were in progress, the workers in Farah’s cutting room voted to joining the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, and AFL-CIO union. On May 9, 1972, workers began to walk out of the Farah plants despite the pleas of union negotiators to come back, but they replied "it's too late, we cannot.' After seven months of striking the employees decided to call for a nationwide boycott of Farah pants, and have since received wide support from such varying personalities as New York City’s liberal mayor John Lindsay and Philadelphia’s law-’n’-order mayor Frank Rizzo, among many others. Union officials have said that Farah lost $8.3 million last year, but Farah may be receiving support from the government in the form of contracts for his goods. Such government purchases partially offset the effect of several retailers’s who have cancelled reorders with the Farah company since the strike began. Farah strike support committees are being organized in varying cities in California and Texas. The strike supporters are concerned about more than just the Farah strike, and are stressing the larger problem of industry locating in poor areas where labor is cheap and the people are open to exploitation. Strike support workers have attacked Farah’s actions because of the movement of industry to the poor areas where unions aren’t a company bother. Although the National Labor Relations Board has ruled that Farah employees do have the right to unionize, Farah refuses to recognize the union as a legitimate collective bargaining agent for Farah workers. Specific worker demands concern several areas: low wages: the average clothing industry worker in Texas receives $3500 annually, while the Department of Labor figures that $9000 is needed each year to raise a family of four. —job security: with no union to provide for worker solidarity, the laborers at the mercy of management. If management should set production quotas too high for the workers to meet, workers could be (and have been) fired indiscriminately. — unfair treatment of women: Women who leave their jobs temporarily to give birth are paid beginners’ wages when they return, regardless of their previous standing in the company. Again, a union would work to correct such policies. Farah has been under fire continually for his sometimes brutal treatment of the picketers outside his Texas plants. Hired guards patrol company grounds with unmuzzled police dogs and continually harass the picketers. In addition, company officials were able to persuade a judge to issue an injunction against the picketers, and more than 400 of the picketers were jailed. Some of the arrested workers were at home when they were arrested. Since the arrests the injunction has been ruled invalid by the courts, and so the picketers continue their vigil outside Farah plants. The strikers are asking for nationwide support of their boycott of Farah products. “Above all,” says Tony Sanchez, a union organizer, “people want something to say about how they are treated, to have respect for their dignity. Give them a living wage, and give them their dignity, too.”


