The reaction

Corbridge responds to financial aid protest

MEMORANDUM TO: United Mexican American Students FROM: James N. Corbridge, 
Jr., Vice President for Student and Minority Affairs E. James Quigley Dean for Student 
Affairs We completely share the deep concern UMAS has expressed regarding the 
serious understaffing situation in the Financial Aid office which results in various 
operational problems. We pledge a utilization of all the resources we have available to 
resolve these problems. Specifically the following actions have been taken: 1. All NDSL 
checks which have not been processed will be available at the Finance Office Thursday, 
October 11. With proper identification students may pick up their checks bet-
ween 9 a.m. and 12 noon, and between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. The date for final tuition and 
fee payments for students who have not received their NDSL loans has been extended 
to October 12. If emergency funds are needed for such items as books and supplies 
prior to October 11, short term loans are immediately available in the Financial Aid 
office for students in this group. 2. We have re-emphasized in our budget request for 
next year that additional help, particularly in the area of application processing, is 
absolutely essential in resolving the problem of having financial aid avialable when the 
student begins class. Additional staff for Financial Aid has and will continue to be our 
number one request priority. We will find a way to provide needed support
for Financial Aid when peak processing periods begin next year. 3. A work order has 
been processed to remodel facilities in the Financial Aid office in order to achieve a 
more efficient utilization of space. Work on this project should proceed within the next 
several weeks. We have included in next year's budget request to the legislature an 
item of approximately $58,000 to pay rent for the addition of the entire north wing of 
Williard Hall for office purposes. If funded, this will provide an opportunity for all EOP 
programs to consolidate into one physical location with ample space for the effective 
delivery of programs and services. It will also provide much-needed additional space for 
Financial Aid and other student services. 4. We assure you that cost of living increases have and will continue to 
be considered in meeting financial needs of students. 5. Beginning next spring, a new computer program 
will be complete that will enable us for the first time to run the financial aid packaging 
program through our own campus data processing facilities. The packaging program 
has been run off campus in the past and has not been satisfactory. We believe this 
procedure will eliminate much of the error and timing problems we have had in the past. 
6. We completely concur with the position that if a student has met all the application 
deadlines with complete application data there is no acceptable reason why financial aid 
cannot be ready for students when they begin class. The improvements and requests which we have initiated will 
give us the capacity for meeting this challenge. The Financial Aid office is composed of 
a most dedicated, competent, and hard-working staff which is dedicated to serving 
students. They must have, however, adequate resources and a data processing system 
that will enable them to do the job. We commit our complete effort in obtaining support 
for the Financial Aid staff that will enable them to effectively serve students in meeting 
financial needs. Although Mr. Heffron is on a high school visitation tour this week with 
the Admissions Office, we have discussed these matters with him by phone and he 
enthusiastically reaffirms his commitment to these actions.

