Corky urges support of Peralta and Roybal
Hermanos y Hermanas: This correspondence is being forwarded to you and other organizations to solicit your support for the legal defense of two Chicanos who were arrested and are undergoing litigation in connection with the bombing of the Ft. Lupton, Colorado, police station March 9, 1971. Anselmo (Elmer) Peralta, 27, and Raymond (Bobby) Roybal, 29, were arrested March 10, 1 972, on Weld County, Colorado, warrants charging them with illegal use of explosives and unlawful destruction of property felonies. Both are now free on bond originally set at $100,000 and lowered to $10,000 each. The defendants are to be tried separately beginning with Anselmo’s trial which is to begin March 12, 1973. Raymond’s trial is scheduled to begin March 26, 1973. This leaves us very little time to do as much as we can to prevent two more Chicano brothers from joining the many political prisoners now held in this country’s institutions.
Means by which you can help support Anselmo Peralta and Raymond Roybal’s legal defense are .. . 1) Financial It is needless to outline all the expenses to be met in order that the defendants can properly obtain an adequate defense expert investigation and testimony, subpoenas, investigation of witnesses, legal document preparation and processing, clerical and attorney fees, etc. We are therefore establishing a Legal defense Fund and a Legal Defense Committee. 2) Endorsement We request your endorsement and permission to use your name as contributors or participants on the Defense Committee. 3) Education The attached material will attest the extent of prejudice and political aspects surrounding this case. We need to make the public aware of this case and solicit their support. Public support could be obtained on behalf of Anselmo and Raymond byway of contributions to their defense fund and letters of support to the presiding judge:
The Honorable Earl A. Wolvington District Court Court House Sterling, Colorado
The support of national leaders are being sought in this campaign. We have communicated and anticipate positive responses from such people as Father Groppi, Angela Dacis, the Berrigans, and others. Anselmo’s and Raymond’s legal defense campaign, as others that we have supported The Soledad Brothers, Carlos Feliciano, Angela Davis, Los Siete, Los Tres de La Raza, and others can be affected by your assistance and support. Please forward all correspondence and contributions to: The Anselmo Peralta and Raymond Roybal Legal Defense Committee c/o The Crusade for Justice 1567 Downing Street Denver, Colorado 80218 Ganaremos! Rudolfo “Corky” Gonzales
