Huelga - Huelga - Huelga - Huelgaby Evelyn MartinezThe United Farmworkers Union (UFWU) is continuing its battle against the powerful farm growers. Teamsters Union, Safeway stores, and growersponsored legislation. In addition to the present lettuce controversy and current farm legislation being considered, the UFWU has renewed the grape boycottin California since the contracts with Coachella Valley grape growers expired in April. The farmworkers under the UFWU are struggling for their right to collective bargaining through their own union; In addition to being effective in the two major boycotts of lettuce and grapes, the UFWU is being forced tofight on several fronts with the Teamsters Union and various farmowner organizations which are pushing for restrictive farm labor legislation in a number of states, including Colorado. The Teamsters do not represent farmworkers in their contracts; their contracts are not designed to raise the farmworkers from their plight; andthey have continually harrassed the UFWLTs organizing efforts. Although the basic wage sought by the Teamsters and the UFWU for farmworkers is about the same, the two unions differ greatly on what benefits the workers should have. In addition to higher wages, the UFWU farmworkers are only asking for decent living conditions. U.S. Department of Labor statistics indicate that farmworkers are the lowest paid laborers in the nation. The average earnings for a farmworker family of four amount to a mere $2700 a year. 80,000-90,000 farmworkers are injured on the job annually by grower misuse of pesticides, with 800 annual fatalities. The UFWU is also fighting for such basic necessities as toilets in the fields, medical provisions, and education for the farmworkers. Children under 16 years old often have to work full-time in the fields to keep the family fed; 80% of all farmworkers seldom will get past the 7th grade. Teamsters contracts do not offer these provisions called for by UFWU farmworkers. On December 29, 1972, the California Supreme Court ruled that the Teamsters do not represent farmworkers. The Supreme Court also found that the Teamsters and the growers “coerced and harrassed farmworkers into joining the Teamsters.” The court further ruled that the lettuce fight was not a jurisdictional dispute between the two unions, as Teamsters, Safeway, growers and some legislators claim. Lettuce Boycott The nationwide secondary boycott of Safeway and A&P supermarkets is in conjunction with the nationwide lettuce boycott. The Safeway and A&P boycott began in January of this year. The UFWU has been conducting a nationwide primary boycott of iceberg (head) lettuce since May 1972, when negotiations with the lettuce growers broke down. The aim of the primary boycott was to persuade consumers to stop eating non-UFWU lettuce. The UFWU is protesting Safeway’s purchase of iceberg lettuce not harvested by UFWU workers but by Teamsters union workers. Safeway is the largest purchaser of iceberg lettuce in the country and refuses to stock only UFWU picked lettuce. Statistics indicate there are a total of 2,318Safeway chain stores across the country, with total sales of $5.4 billion annually. “After nearly four months, the UFWU boycott against Safeway is now at an all time high,” according to Richard Longoria, director of the Denver UFWU Boycott office. “Lettuce is much harder to boycott than grapes, Longoria said, “and Safeway has never reacted publicly as they have now. We’re at an all time high in public awareness,” he said. According to Longoria, six to eight stores in the Denver area are being picketed daily, and pickets have been set up in nearly every segment of Colorado, including southern Colorado, the Western Slope, and Cheyenne and Laramie, Wyoming. In February, Cesar Chavez, UFWU leader, visited the Denver region accompanied with an estimated 75 farmworkers on their way to the east coast to negotiate with A&P supermarket officials. In response to a question about the progress of the lettuce boycott, Chavez told thousands of Denver UFWU supporters, “The lettuce boycott, the level of understanding is very, very high. I’d say it’s as high as it was when we won the grape boycott . . . The larger cities, 40-50 larger cities. I'd put Denver as one of the best. I look forward to a victory here before we have a victory elsewhere,” Chavez said.Chavez said Safeway is the biggest chain store causing the problem. “Safeway stores are not only aligned with the growers because they have growers on their board of directors, but they’ve gone out of their way to buy scab lettuce . . . We’re saying, if they want to be neutral, don’t buy either lettuce,” he said. Delores Huerta, today’s leading Chicana activist and UFWU organizer, vice president and director of negotiations for the UFWU was also a guest at the university. Huerta called for renewed efforts by all who are receptive to the plight of the farmworker to held the farmworkers in their current struggles with the lettuce growers and renewed struggles with the grape growers. Boulder Boycott Efforts Expanded Boulder UFWU supporters haven’t given up their efforts to get people to stop shopping at Safeway. Over 3000 shoppers have been turned away from Safeway since the pickets began in January. Organizations endorsing the lettuce boycott in the Boulder area include Boulder Collective for Peace Research, UMAS Farm Labor Task Force, Lettuce Boycott Committee, St. Thomas Aquinas Church, Boulder Meeting of Friends, ASUC (Associated Students of the University of Colorado, United Mexican American Students (UMAS), and Migrant Action Program (MAP). Current plans are to expand the picket lines of Safeway into the weekdays. According to Jose Ortega, UMAS Farm Labor Task Force spokesman, “There’s a lot of Safeway customers that haven’t been contacted, people who aren’t aware of the picket have yet to be informed of the farmworker struggles.” Victor Gonzales of the UMAS FTLF said, “Pickets are being organized everyday and will continue everyday throughout the summer. The projected goal of FLTF is to turn away approximately 10,000 Safeway shoppers within a few months. Gonzales called for the voluntary assistance of all students and others to come out and help picket. At the university level, the University has agreed to stop buying iceberg (head) lettuce in response to a “substantial consumer demand,” according to a statement released last week byVice President for Student and Minority Affairs James Corbridge. Head lettuce will no longer be available in the dormitories and through UMC food services. However, alternatives such as romaine, leaf and bib lettuce will be offered. The decision came after efforts of student negotiators canvassed the dormitories in support of signatures (2000 required) demanding that the university buy only UFWU lettuce or provide alternatives. The 2000 signatures are valid proof of consumer concern, since they represent over 40 percent of dorm students. UFWU-Safeway Suits Three law suits totaling approximately $196 million are now pending, two against Safeway and one against the UFW. Last month, a $l3 million suit alleging that Safeway misrepresented the fat content of its ground beef was filed against Safeway by Denver UFW Boycott Office Director Richard Longoria and a non-profit Colorado Corporation called the Interfaith Committee to Aid Farmworkers (ICAF). A few days later, Safeway filed a $l5O million countersuit against the UFWU, the ICAPF, and other individuals including UFWU leader Cesar Chavez, alleging that UFWU supporters have engaged in mass picketing of Safeway stores and "otherwise disrupting the lawful conduct of business.” The most recent suit filed in Denver totaled $33 million charging Safeway with “knowledgeably mislabeling cuts of meat,” and selling them for higher prices than they would normally be sold.Denver District Attorney Dale Tooley has answered the allegations against Safeway. Tooley has said Safeway Stores, Inc. in the Denver area has fraudulently misrepresented the fat content of their hamburger. In tests conducted by the Denver Department of Health and Hospitals at Tooley’s request, ground beef marked ‘extra lean’ had a higher fat content than that marked “lean,” with the “extra lean” meat priced 23 cents higher than the “lean.” The suits also charged the Safeway chain stores with “fraudulent and illegal meat labeling practices,” which are deceiving metro-Denver area consumers and endangering the health patients and diabetics, according to the Task Force for Consumer Protection of Denver. Renewed Grape Boycott With the exploration of United Farmworkers Union contracts with California Coachella Valley grape growers, a struggle has begun over who will represent the farmworkers. As soon as the UFWU contracts expired last month, 85 percent of the growers signed contracts with the Teamsters Union officials, even though the Teamsters have been charged with having no real right to represent the farmworkers. “The growers signed with the Teamsters because the Teamsters don’t demand any rights fox the farmworkers,” Carol Longoria of the Denver UFWU office said. She said the Teamsters “didn’t even ask the farmworkers if they wanted the Teamsters Union represenation.” Immediately after the growers signed with the Teamsters, 1600 of the Coachella Valley’s 2000 grape pickerswent out on strike, Longoria said. “The Teamsters and the growers agree to ‘sweetheart’ contracts,” Longoria said, “where little or no worker benefits are sought or obtained.” Maureen Monahan of the Denver UFWU said that no grape boycott will go into effect until May, when the real grape harvesting begins. “Two grape growers did negotiate with the UFWU,” she said, but “the other 150200 growers will have to be convinced. Farmworker Legislation Another important aspect of the farmworkers struggle is the proposed inclusion of farmworkers in the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). The NLRA allows workers to organize into unions, but prohibits secondary boycotts. On the state level, Colorado House Bill 1401, known as the Kansas Bill is presently being reviewed before the Colorado State House of Representatives Subcommittee on Labor and Employment Relations. The bill prohibits organizational picketing, secondary boycotts by farmworkers and strikes during critical periods of production of harvesting of crops. Monahan said that outlawing strikes at harvest time would “take away one of the few effective weapons the farmworkers have.” Monahan continued that Teamster Union acts in California necessitate ‘wildcat strikes,’ strikes not authorized by a union, mainly because “the Teamsters don’t even ask the farmworkers who should represent them, but instead sign contracts directly with the growers.