Euvaldo’s Response

Several times during the past year I have been tempted to respond to editorial 
comments in El Diurio that I knew were  not only slanted but outright lies. I have 
resisted this temptation because I feel strongly that Chicanos should not air their 
disagreements in the public media, thus giving the non-Chicano the opportunity to sit 
back and savor the pleasure of the divisiveness of this “Mexican cock fight”  
However, the flow of "garbage" has gotten too heavy, and to disregard this now would 
be, for me turning my back on Chicanos whose real commitment is the progress and 
welfare of all our people; a commitment expressed by constructive action and not just 
empty verbage. The intimidation tactics intended to stymie their efforts have to be 
confronted. In addressing my comments to the Chicano students and staff of the 
University of Colorado I have to do it by stressing SOMEONE IS MESSING WITH 
YOUR MIND, and not giving you the credit for realizing it is happening. I, among 
many, refuse to believe that the commitment of students to the concept of 
Chicanismo is as shallow as to accept, without question, some of the empty rhetoric 
coming from El Diario. I wish I could i say specifically who is responsible, but as you 
have noticed, that; element of HUEVOS, very necessary to responsible journalism, is 
very lacking on the editorial staff of this publication. No one can tell whose opinion is 
being expressed, and behind this shield anonymity they are free to slam every Chicano 
whose viewpoints happen to differ from theirs. According to a column appearing in the 
September 22 issue of El Diario entitled Dis-Honor Roll, I have the dubious distinction of getting 
the most mileage from my Chicano name. The implication being that my 
commitment to Chicanismo is less than complete. I would grant the writer that my 
interpretation of Chicanismo probably differs from his, however, the proof of 
commitment comes in accomplishments and the record on this is open. Four points are 
made: 1. Harassment pf United Farm Worker Speakers. 2. Failure to support a Chicano 
for a vital position with the city of Boulder. 3. Having resigned from the city of Boulder 
Human Relations Commission over a lettuce boycott issue. 4. Veto of a proposal to 
contribute to the Brian Sanchez Defense Fund. I want to preface my specific response 
to each of the four "pot shots” taken at me by assuring the Chicano students that if ever 
there is concern about the motives behind anything I do, just ask me and I will tell you; 
eye ball to eyeball. Can this editorial staff give you the’ same assurance? I question 
your source of information on the allegation that I have harassed UFW speakers. If I can 
assume to guess what presentation you are referring to, I assure you I knew the answer 
to the question I asked and Richard Longoria, the speaker, knew I would ask the 
question in order to get the information out to the people attending. If the editors of El 
Diario had been there that evening, they would have known the difference. To check on 
support for UFW positions, ask the people of Center, Colorado, where the four 
truckloads of clothing and food staples that were sent to them in the winter of 1971 
came from? Who was among those coordinating the efforts? Have you asked Len Avila how 
many times he has been invited to speak to non-student groups in Boulder; and by 
whom? To state that I resigned from the Human Relations Commission over a lettuce 
boycott issue only reveals the lack of research that went into this particular column. The 
minutes of the City of Boulder Human Relations Commission clearly indicate who 
presented the motion for and led the debate in favor of a stand supporting an 
informational program for the citizens of Boulder on the struggles of United Farm 
Workers to win the right to organize. Yes, I urged very strongly that before we present 
this informational program we also include the point of view of the Colorado Farm 
Bureau, the Teamsters Union, and Safeway, Inc. Check the signature of those letters 
inviting them to participate, for that signature is mine. The opinion I had then and still do, 
is that by including all sides of the issue the credibility of the Boulder Farm Workers 
Task Force would be increased. My diappointment was that the leaders of the Task 
Force were allowing themselves to be led. or at least influenced, by a few “bleeding 
heart liberals,” who seek to sooth their bigoted conscience by wearing a "BOYCOTT 
LETTUCE" button and marching on Safeway a few times. It was these people who 
resented my position to prepare a more rational and balanced program. My resignation 
from the Commission came over a completely separate issue. Later, in 1971, I was 
involved in interviewing candidates for the position of Director of the Office of Human 
Rights with the City of Boulder. Among those candidates was Pete Reyes, a Chicano. 
He was not selected for the position and as a result ; assumed that I had not supported 
him. When the reporter from El Diario contacted me, he refused to identify himself and 
proceeded to question me while implying that I had, in fact, sold out. My position then 
was that if this reporter preferred to I believe that I had not supported Reyes then 
nothing I would say would convince him otherwise, thus, I refused to justify my actions 
to him. Those Chicano students who did discuss the matter with me learned that I 
had in fact supported Pete Reyes. Most recently a request for support monies for the 
Brian Sanchez Defense Fund was made from St. Martin De Porres Parrish. Yes, I 
disagreed with the amount requested and I suggested that we contribute less. My 
position was based on my priority since we also have commitments to other Chicano  
projects. The most long range being a monthly contribution to the residents of 
Wattenburg, Colorado, an all Chicano community. Because we also supported a 
bilingual-bicultural education program in Laredo, Texas, this past summer, our budget 
is overspent already. I am positive that, knowing the facts, Brian Sanchez would also 
support my position on this issue. Despite the fact that I have responded in the 
same "gut level"  manner that the editorial was written, I still firmly believe that  
differences should be worked out on a personal level. There is too much to be done for 
us to be cutting each other down. Chicanismo will not reach a mature state until we all 
realize that, whereas we may be diverse in sentiment, we are united in purpose.

