Archuleta files charges against Boulder officers

Frank Archuleta, along with several other Chicanos from Lafayette, met Tuesday 
afternoon with Boulder District Attorney Alex Hunter in an effort to file charges against 
three officers of the Boulder County Sheriffs Dept, and against an Illinois man, William 
Kendler. Archuleta accused Officer Richard Winchester of assault and officers Gerold 
Leverentz and Richard Dutrow of coercion and trespassing. Axording to Hunter, no 
action could be taken against the three officers until Sheriff Brad Leach could carry out 
a thorough investigation of the Oct. 6 incident. However, Archuleta did file a complaint 
against William Kendler and charged him with assault and battery, and assault with a 
deadly weapon. The charges stem from a series of incidents that began on Oct. 6 when 
Archuleta and his friends were celebrating a football victory at a roadside park near 
Lafayette. William Kendler, who was camping out in the park, approached Archuleta 
while wearing a shoulder gun and started accusing he and his friends of riding the 
horses in the field next to the park. Archuleta denied that he or his friends were riding 
the horses. They argued for a few minutes and then Kendler left. Minutes later, 
according to Archuleta, Kendler returned and drew the gun from his holster, threatened 
people in the crowd and shouted, "If these were my horses I’d shoot you.” Kendler’s 
wife called police and complained that someone had thrown a beer bottle at her daughter. 
First to arrive on the scene was officer Richard Winchester. According to witnesses, Kendler had by 
this time thrown his gun into the tent. Archuleta told Officer Winchester that he and others wanted 
to file a complaint against Kendler. Officer Winchester agreed and asked someone to sign the 
complaint. Archuleta agreed to sign, but found that it was a summons to appear in court 
and not a complaint against Kendler. “I'm not going to sign this, I didn’t do anything 
wrong,” Archuleta said. The summons ordered that the defendant appear in court to 
answer to third degree, assault charges, apparently for Kendler’s child, that was, 
allegedly hit with a beer bottle. Archuleta said that he wasn’t, there when the girl was 
supposedly hit with a bottle. Officer Winchester arrested Archuleta for refusing to 
sign the summons. During the arrest, Archuleta suffered a shoulder separation while 
being handcuffed, and called his treatment police brutality. Archuleta said that he finally 
signed the summons, and was then released. Witnesses say that after Archuleta was 
released, no one was allowed to file a complaint against Kendler who was ordered by 
police to leave the area. The following day Officer Richard Dutrow and Officer Gerold 
Leverentz allegedly entered Archuleta’s home without knocking, apparently wanting the 
summons back.

Axording to Archuleta, one officer poked him in the chest, demanding the summons. 
Archuleta said that the only reason he could see for officers wanting the summons back 
was that the court date was improperly written. After the meeting Tuesday Hunter 
promised to look into the matter and check back with Archuleta. Archuleta told Hunter 
that he was a tax paying citizen and only wanted to see justice. Pintos ask for books 
Books dealing with Chicanos, including our history, culture, politics, etc., are being 
collected for use by prisoners in the Canyon City penitentiary. The books are being 
collected by members of the St. Thomas Aquinas Newman Center, located at 904 14th 
Street in Boulder. If you can donate books of your own, or help locate books for the 
pintos, bring them to the Newman Center. ASUC Anti-Rape Squad THE ASUC Anti-
Rape program initiated last spring will begin again Sept. 17. People walkers will be 
available at Norlin Library and the UMC Hostess desk. Volunteer drivers from the 
University Motor pool will drive a shuttle l bus from the UMC, leaving every half hour 
from 7:00 - 11:00 p.m. Mon. - Thur. For more information call; ASUC at ext. 7473.

