Court oks admission policy

Affirmative Action Law School Admissions Upheld The University of Washington School 
of Law had created an admissions program which took account of the race and ethnic 
origin of applicants. Minority applicants include Blacks, Chicanos, American Indians and 
Philipinos. In order to eliminate the continued effects of past segregation and 
discrimination against these groups, and in order to achieve a reasonable 
representation within the student body of persons from these groups, the University 
recognized that the conventional mechanical credentialing system does not always 
produce good indicators of the full potential of such culturally different individuals. 
Consequently, in reviewing the files of minority applicants, the Admissions Committee 
attached less weight to the arithmetic test and made a more judgemental evaluation as 
to the ability of the particular applicant to succeed in law school. The plaintiff in De Funis 
v. Odegaard claimed that this process violated his rights as an Anglo citizen to equal protection 
of the laws. 

The lower court in Seattle upheld his cause of action and ordered the University of Washington 
to admit him. The Supreme Court of Washington reversed the trial court and effectively legalized 
the law school’s affirmative action program. The Court employed a two step process of decision making. 
It held first, that under the applicable school desegregation decisions, and also under cases 
upholding affirmative action in employment, that the consideration of race as a factor in 
the admissions policy is not a per se violation of the equal protection clause. The Court 
then went on to determine whether the state university had compelling reasons to 
consider race and ethnic origin in its admissions process. It found that the University 
has an overriding interest in providing all law students with a legal education that will 
adequately prepare them to deal with the societal problems which will confront them 
upon graduation. Since lawyers are in the center of the decision-making
processes in our society, the State, through the University, has an interest in producing 
a racially balanced student body. Furthermore, relieving the shortage of minority 
attorneys itself satisfies a compelling state interest. The Court said, “If minorities are to 
live within the rule of law, they must enjoy equal representation within our legal system.” 
This was the first major skirmish in the fight in some quarters to undermine recently 
created affirmative action programs which would ensure minority lawyers for minority 
communities. The importance of this case cannot be underestimated for the future of 
minority admissions to law schools. National organizations around the country, including 
MALDEF filed amicus curiae briefs to emphasize to the Court the significance of the 
issue before it. MALDEF will continue fighting any attempts to reduce minority 
admissions programs because Chicano lawyers will indeed become a treasure to the 
community, if only they are permitted to receive an education.

