The Law and the secondary boycott
by Willy Garibay and Dan Casias
(Editor’s note: We remind readers that this article is intended to be a general guide to the legalities involved in picketing and boycotting. Statements contained herein are not the final word in legal matters.)
Although the National Labor Relations Act forbids secondary boycotts, the Act does not apply to farm workers. Colorado, unlike other states, has not yet passed any legislation prohibiting such secondary boycotts. Therefore, the urging of such a boycott in itself is not unlawful, and the assembly to do so is also not unlawful. A secondary boycott is one in which economic pressure is applied to the retail outlet in order to force the manufacturer to comply with a demand supported by the boycotters. While the boycott is legal, it is important that it be carried out in the proper manner. If traffic is impeded, the police can order the dispersal of the demonstration on the grounds that the demonstration causes an interference. To lower the chances of being busted for loitering, it is best that you keep moving.
Violence should be avoided, since if any occurs, the store being picketed can obtain a temporary restraining order against the boycott, and this injunction would end any attempt at urging support of the secondary boycott in the parking lots of the picketed business. Any physical confrontation, even if provoked, would be meaningless and would only hurt the boycott. Although you will probably not be breaking any laws, the police may be called. How an individual reacts to police presence or harassment is up to the individual, but the police can take certain actions. If arrested, first make the policeman explain exactly what he is arresting you for. He should then inform you of your rights. Even if you feel that the police officer has no right to arrest you, you cannot legally resist that arrest. Under the former Colorado law, it was possible to resist an unlawful arrest. But under a new law, if the officer is acting under the color of his authority and is not using “unreasonable or excessive force,” color of his authority and is
not using “unreasonable or excessive force,” the unlawful arrest cannot be resisted. To do so is a misdemeanor, punishable by a maximum sentence of 12 months and/or $ 1000 fine. It is also a misdemeanor to interfere with the arrest of another person. So if you feel an urge to add to the verbal barrage directed towards an officer arresting one of your brothers or sisters, he can arrest you for interference. Also, if your blood runs hot enough that you feel the need to take your frustration out on the officer arresting you, you should know that applying physical force to an officer in the performance of his duty is a class four felony. If the police do decide to arrest you, it would probably be best to go along and work out all the difficulties at the station. During a demonstration such as picketing, usually the most you can be charged with is a petty offense such as interfering with traffic. However, resisting arrest could lead to many complications. If you should be arrested while boycotting or picketing, you can call for legal help: David Moore, 449-3020, or Eddie Lobato, 443-2524.
Picketers young and old should be informed of their rights and responsibilities while urging a secondary boycott. Non-violence is a must and confrontations should be avoided at all costs. photo by Craig Russell
