Police called political . . . Ernesto Vigil and Maceo Dixon talk on police violence

Maceo Dixon, Socialist candidate for Mayor of Detroit, and Ernesto Vigil, Chicano 
activist and teacher at Escuela Tlatelolco in Denver, spoke at the University on October 
18 concerning Police/Community Relations. Dixon, a Black from Detroit, explained a 
police program in Detroit called STRESS (Stop The RobberiesEnjoy Safe Streets) and how 
the community overcame the problems posed by STRESS. “STRESS was established 
and used by the ruling class in Detroit to oppress the Black people,” Dixon told an 
audience of 80. Dixon said that the STRESS unit operated only in the Black community. And in a period of two 
years, STRESS had killed 17 Blacks and only one white. Detroit is about 50% Black. 
According to Dixon, STRESS operations were about 80% surveillance and 20% decoy. 
"STRESS did not have the character of arresting people, but was used to create a 
situation that would lure people and entice them to commit crimes.” It has been 
reported, for example, that members of STRESS have posed as winos. “They would act 
as if they were drunk and they would have money sticking out of their pockets. The 
decoys are never out of sight of their STRESS partners, however." "STRESS 
represented the whole campaign to terrorize the Black community so that they will be 
afraid of whites,” Dixon continued. A Coalition to Abolish STRESS was formed by 
members of the Black community. The coalition headed by Dixon began to explain to 
the Black community the operations of STRESS. After a long and difficult campaign by 
the community, STRESS was abolished this April. Dixon ended his talk by saying, "the 
Police departments should be abolished because they do not serve any useful purposes 
in the Black and Chicano communities.

"They are there to serve the purposes of the slum lords and the white businesses.” Vigil 
slams pigs. Ernesto Vigil cited many examples of police crimes committed against 
Chicanos in the Denver area. He said that on March 17, when the Denver police 
attacked the apartment house next to the Crusade, three police reports differed. One 
police report said there were 80 police at the scene that night and another police report 
said that there were 131 police at the scene. The third report said that there were 181. 
Vigil called the police “liars.” These reports are only an indication of the methods used 
by the Denver police to convict Chicano activists. Vigil said. Vigil compared the police 
problems of Denver with Detroit, saying “the STRESS unit is much like the Special 
Services Unit (SSU) and the Street Crime Attack Team (SCAT) of the Denver police. 
“SCAT has been utilized in political confrontations,” Vigil said, “SCAT has not solved the 
shooting of Mrs. Eugene Smaldone or the shotgun death of ‘Skip’ LaGuardia, yet they 
go ground La Raza Park trying to enforce the curfew.” Smaldone and LaGuardia were 
allegedly involved in Denver Mafia operations. Vigil compared the Denver police with 
the military. “The Denver Police Department has a high sophisticated Military Force within the Police force. 
They use three man squads, one to draw fire and the other two act as snipers,” he said. Vigil also told how 
the Denver police use helicopters with high-powered cameras, flood lights and bullet-
proof shields. The shields were provided by Joseph Coors of Golden. “He was shot four 
times, once at close range,” Vigil said, referring to the shooting death by Denver police 
of James Young, a Black Panther. "The police claimed that they fired at the van 
(Young's van) because they saw flashes coming from it.” "No guns were found on 
Young and the FBI ballistics tests showed that the bullets that killed Young were not 
fired from police guns," Vigil said. The police admitted having chased and fired at the 
van Young was riding in. “Young’s wife filed a suit against the police department, but the 
suit was thrown out of court.” Vigil concluded by saying that many Chicano activists are 
often harassed by Denver police. “We’re followed home all the time. The police question 
my neighbors and have even questioned the employer of a Crusade brother about 
whether or not the brother has ever made political statements on the job," he said.

Ernesto Vigil
Maceo Dixon

