CBSA hears Chicano businessmen

The University chapter of the Colorado Business Students Association (CBSA) hosted 
several business speakers as part of the Business Careers Orientation last week. 
Chicano businessmen from the Denver area spoke to students about the different 
aspects of business, and job opportunities in business that are in need of Chicanos. 
According to Gloria Hightower, CBSA spokeswoman, “The purpose of the Business 
Careers Orientation is to help the business students become more aware of the 
business areas and opportunities available to them.” During the orientation, students 
were encouraged to keep in contact with the Chicano businessmen to help later on in 
finding job opportunities available to them. Euterio V. Gallegoes, regional director of a 
Denver accounting firm, spoke of the reasons why minority owned businesses have a 
high failing rate. He said there is a 50 percent failing rate for general
businesses, but the minority failure percentage is even higher. Gallegoes outlined other 
factors attributable to minority business failures as: lack of technical know how, 
traditional culture differences because they are members of a minority, lack of 
educational background, not aware of resources, narrow market range, and lack of capital. 
George Rock, president of the Coronado National Bank in Denver, the only Colorado 
Chicano-owned bank, spoke of job opportunities for Chicanos within the banking aspect 
of business careers. Rock said banks are looking for aggressive people who can 
communicate effectively with people in the community, as with Chicanos. Since banks 
control 90 percent of the economy, the Chicano banker has to be knowledgeable of 
what’s happening in the economy, Rock said. According to Rock, “There is steady advancement in 
the banking areas for Chicanos; many banks are interested in minority hiring programs, 
the talent and ability available in the minority community." Ted Tafoya, former CU 
graduate from the school of Business and currently from the Veterans Outreach 
Program in Denver, said, “Our conditioning by society is the most important thing; we’ve 
been conditioned to think another way.” Tafoya measured success as "being happy, 
doing your thing and being the best at whatever you’re doing." “We’re going to have to 
take control of our minds; the majority of us cannot even make a decision due to our low 
self-image of ourself; we're constantly wishing we were someone else,” Tafoya said. 
Tafoya told the CBSA members that “helping people is the name of the game today; the 
gringo raped our mind and had us to the point where we were even afraid to admit what we were.” 
Tafoya said, “Most of us believe in everything and anything but ourselves.” Tafoya told CBSA members that 
"It’s no big thing to get a degree from this university.” “Our system is a racist, bigot, 
capitalist, competitive system; if we want to succeed, we have to get it on,” he said. 
“The mere fact that we’re Chicanos, we’re gonna have to be twice the man to compete 
in that society; your raza is depending on you to start helping people out,” Tafoya said. 
“All the rhetoric and all the talk means nothing until you put it to use,” Tafoya concluded. 
Another Chicano businessman, Phil Trujillo, a realtor-broker of his own Trujillo Real 
Estate and Insurance Company of the Denver area, said the majority of
Chicano graduates have traditionally majored in education or social work, but he 
stressed concern about having more Chicanos in the business schools, or business 
graduates. Trujillo explained several of the advantages and disadvantages of real 
estate, in that “You are dealing with peoples' very basic need, their house.” According to 
Trujillo, in 1961 there was only one Chicano real estate broker in the Denver area. 
Since then he has trained agents who now have their own brokerage offices. About six 
real estate brokers are operating their own businesses. Other speakers at the Business 
careers orientation were Mary Panetta, Undergraduate Advisor for Business School, 
and Dave Romero, an accountant who serves on the board for minority recruitment for 
the Colorado Society of Certified Public Accountants.

