Probation services A good alternative

“One of three things can happen when a Chicano is arrested: he can be found innocent, he can be judged guilty and sent up, or he can be placed on probation,” Roy Martinez, Probation Services Counselor, said, “but we can help keep out of jail.” The Chicano Volunteers in Probation Service program has been in operation for a year now, with regional offices in Jefferson County, Denver and Adams County. Martinez, who is the probation counselor for the Adams County (Brighton) judicial system, said the program is beginning to role into high gear. "I’ve got six confirmed counselors and 23 applicants,” Martinez said. The volunteers Martinez contacts are asked to meet with Chicanos who have been charged with crimes, and act as counselors to the Chicanos. "The volunteers provide job counseling, financial counseling, and any other type of help the Chicano prisoners need,” Martinez said. Martinez prepares reports for Adams County judges on Chicanos arrested in Adams County, and the reports have a great bearing on whether or not the Chicanos will be given probation instead of a jail term. If the Chicano has a volunteer counselor, the judges will usually go along with Martinez’ recommendation for probation. The volunteer meets with his counsel for “at least one hour a week,” Martinez said, “and usually for longer periods of time.” No office hours are required, and the meetings can take place anywhere or in any situation. Martinez encourages the volunteers to find alternatives for the Chicano who wants to change his lifestyle. “When the judges know that the Chicano has a job or can enter school, probation is almost a certainty,” Martinez said. He contrasted this alternative to what has usually been offered Chicanos accused of crimes. “It used to be that a Chicano charged with a crime would be advised to join the service,” Martinez said, “but I coach the volunteers to stay far away from that sort of action.” Judges are also inclined to grant probation if the Chicano agrees to pay any damages he is convicted of doing. “The - payments are only $5 - $1O a month, and the Chicanos usually are able to make restitutions,” Martinez said. Even with the number of applicants the program now has, the need for volunteers is still greater than the supply of volunteers. “We'd like to receive many more applications and have more volunteers working,” Martinez said. Roy Martinez can be contacted by calling 659-7071 in Brighton, or by traveling to 130 N. Main in Brighton. He also has information about the Jefferson County and Denver probation service programs. 