EDITORIALS

Why Boycott Coors?

There are several reasons why many people have quit drinking Coors beer. Although 
many people boycott Coors, the reasons are not always clear to everyone. The boycott 
of all Coors products began in 1966. Boycott means to “refuse to have anything to do 
with the product or services" of a company or enterprise. The Colorado GI Forum began 
receiving complaints that the Coors Brewing Company in Golden. Colorado, was 
discriminating against Chicanos and Blacks in their hirine and promotion practices. 
When the GI Forum began looking into the problem, they found that there were 1330 
people working for Coors, of which only 27 were Chicanos. At the time there were 
120.000 Chicanos living in the greater Denver area, which includes Golden. The 
Colorado GI Forum appealed to other Chicano organizations for support of the boycott. 
The Crusade for Justice, UMAS, MECHA, Westside Coalition, MAYA, and MAP were 
some of the organizations that immediately took up the boycott. The national GI Forum 
also began actively boycotting Coors. By the end of 1967, there were 1820 Coors 
employees, and only 74 were Chicanos. One Chicano was in a supervisory capacity, 22 
were semi-skilled and the rest were laborers. Coors continued to deny that they 
discriminated. Guilty of discrimination In August 1970, the Colorado Civil Rights 
Commission ruled that the Adolph Coors Company was guilty of racial discrimination in 
the 1969 firing of a black employee. Booker T. Mays was fired for insubordination after 
he came to work when he was supposed to be serving a five-day suspension. Mays 
was suspended after the company charged that he had overstayed two relief breaks 
three minutes on one occasion and seven minutes on another. Along with finding the 
brewery guilty of racial discrimination in the case, the commission ordered that Mays be 
reinstated in his job with full back pay. Non-union labor “We are still on strike against 
Coors," a spokesman for the 17 labor unions that went on strike against Coors on 
November I, 1968, said this week. According to Roy L. Nylander, Business Manager of 
the Pipefitters Local Union No. 208, the problem is that the Adolph Coors Company 
does not use craft journeymen in the construction of new facilities. The handbill being 
circulated by the striking unions reads, "in the past the Coors container was usually one 
ounce less in content than the other major beers on the market." Among the unions that 
are still on strike against Coors are: Bricklayers No. 1, Carpenters District Council, 
Electricians No. 68, Ironworkers No. 24, Painters No. 79, Pipefitters No. 208, Plumbers 
No. 3, and Roofers No. 41. Coors on student rights As a University of Colorado Regent, 
Joseph Coors opposed student freedoms. On September 16, 1968, at a Regents 
meeting, Coors said, “free speech only goes up to a point, and has its limits." Coors is 
now Chairman of the Board of the Coors Porcelain Company. In reference to women 
students seeking birth control information, Regent Coors said, "This is the type of thing 
that certainly doesn't make people think well of the University. I think girls shouldn't go 
to school with the intention of needing the pill. I think they should exercise self-discipline 
until they're married. Students Vote Down Coors Beer The students at the University 
strongly objected to Regent Coors' attitude. On Wednesday, October 16, 1968, an 
ASUC student assembly gave an overwhelming vote to a resolution by Jon Hillson that 
“Mr. Coors be censured by this assembly for his intimidatory approach to President 
Smiley and his politically motivated harassment of the SDS National Council.” When the 
UMC began serving beer, Coors beer was eliminated from consideration. The ASUC 
student assembly meeting on December 4, 1968, voted to ban its (Coors) sale in the 
UMC in support of the AFL-CIO strike being waged against the Adolph Coors Company. 
The boycott also received official support of the National Student Association (NSA) at 
the National Student Congress held August 19-29, 1969. 500 students from western 
states (all NSA members) voted support of the boycott. The environment It is ironic that 
the Coors Company now claims to be concerned about the environment through their 
re-cycling program. On April 22, 1970, William Coors, President of Coors Brewing 
Company, said, "American industry wouldn’t pollute except for the fact of competition." 
Maybe they should re-cycle the air. Some More Strikebreaking During the United 
Farmworkers grape strike in the late 1960'5, Coors trucks were used to haul scab 
grapes. The strike breaking efforts of the Coors Company still exist today. This summer 
Coors trucks were seen hauling scab grapes again.

The taste test Many people still drink Coors because “they prefer the flavor." In May of 
this year, Frederick Meeker, Asst. Professor at California State Polytech College in 
Pomona, California, revealed the results of a beer preference test he had conducted. 
He asked 20 students to identify a single brand of beer that was offered to them in 
unlabled containers. Before the test, ten of the students claimed that they could 
distinguish one beer from another; 10 students said they could not. The students were 
asked to drink four different brands of beer. The results were: “Not one student could 
identify a single brand of beer." Some people will have to find another excuse. Boycott 
COORS BEER and GOLDEN CHOICE DOG FOOD Come on, brothers and sisters, let's 
get it together. The boycott of Coors products is far from over. In the last five years the 
Coors plant has almost doubled in size. This construction was done by non-union labor. 
Coors also joined in trying to break the UFW strikes. Coors claims to believe in a good 
environment but on the other hand believes in pollution. As a Regent, Joseph Coors 
continuously attempted to suppress student rights. The students did not hesitate to 
censure him. People who claim to "prefer the flavor” of Coors don't know what they're 
talking about. The policies and attitudes of Coors towards minorities are still the same. 
In a recent letter to the Coors Boycott Committee of the GI Forum, William Coors said, 
“With each passing day, more and more of your people discover what a total fraud it 
(the boycott) is. If your boycott committee people still possess the intelligence that God 
gave them, they will call this thing off without condition or consideration." Coors 
continued, "Do that, amigo, and then we will sit down and talk."

