Avalos Recovering Quickly - Insurance ReviewedA benefit raffle for Sam Avalos netted almost $4OO to be used to pay a small part of his $3O-40,000 medical costs. Sam, a University student and UMAS-EOP teaching assistant, was traveling to Arizona when the truck he was driving left the road and overturned near Gallup, New Mexico. Sam suffered severe injuries to his neck and was paralyzed from the neck down. On April 2, he was flown from Gallup to the Craig Rehabilitation Center in Denver for intensive care and rehabilitation. Since he entered Craig on April 2 he has shown remarkable improvement and may soon be able to leave Craig for short periods of time. The raffle was planned to help offset Sam’s medical expenses, which may total as much as $3O-40,000. Many UMAS and other university students participated in selling tickets for the benefit. The first-place prize, a 19” black and white portable television, was won by Mike Maestas of Denver, who had sold a book of tickets to his friends. The Chicano Law Students won the second-placeprize, $5O, and immediately decided to donate the prize money to the Sam Avalos fund. Finally, the third-place prize of $25 was won by Brenda Bustamante of Boulder, a student at a local school. Thus far the Sam Avalos fund has grown to about $7OO, and other fund-raising activities are planned for the summer. Sam has progressed to the point where he is now utilizing a wheelchair and has regained partial use of the left side of his body. He now begins the training which will enable him to leave the hospital and return to school. Students who wish to help with fund-raising activities for the Sam Avalos fund can contact Paul Mora in the El Diario office. Also, donations can be sent directly to the Sam Avalos fund, 1400 Irving, Denver, Colorado.Sam Avalos’ tragic accident brought to light an aspect of life we all often neglect, the maintenance of some provision for injury or death. At the time of his accident Sam was only covered by the University Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan, which at first glance seems to be woefully inadequate in case of an accident. However, even a casual glance at this insurance plan shows an entirely different picutre. Briefly, the University BC/BS plan provides for 30 days of consecutive coverage at Wardenburg, or if a student is injured more seriously, at another hospital. While 30 days seems a rather short length of time for hospitalization coverage, the coverage is usually sufficient. According to Leonard Wrott of the Colorado Hospital Association, patients entering Colorado hospitals stay an average of 7.5 days a visit. The average charge each day at Colorado hospitals is $lOO a day, unless, Wrott said, “the patient is that one in a thousand who requires extensive care." In this case, Wrott said, "both the patients length of stay and the expenses involved can jump pretty high.” Wrott made reference to specialized institutions where severely injured patients receive treatment.One very specialized institution is the Craig Rehabilitation Center in Denver, where Sam Avalos is currently undergoing treatment. Yet even at Craig medical expenses and length of stay are not that extensive. Larry Wall, an administrator at Craig, said patients at Craig stay longer and require more treatment than do patients at general hospitals. Craig deals almost exclusively with spinal cord injuries that result in paralysis, and stresses rehabilitation of patients with partial or almost total paralysis. “The type of injury and the equipment needed determine how long a patient remains at Craig and how much his stay will cost,” Wall said. “A paraplegic (a patient with paralysis of the lower trunk and legs) will remain at Craig for an average of 55 to 60 days, while a quadraplegic (a patient paralyzed in all four limbs) will stay an average of 75 to 80 days.” “The expenses here,” Wall said, “vary since patients need extensive care and rehabilitation, in addition to their own equipment.” Wall noted, however, that the average cost a day at Craig was about $ll5. While most patients could not normally afford such an ex-pense, Wall said “98 percent of the patients are covered by some insurance plan,” and other types of types of coverage are available ex post facto, most notably Medicaid. Wall said the University BC/BS plan appeared to be sufficient coverage in most cases, since “the type of spinal injury we treat at Craig occurs to only five to ten thousand people in the United States each year.” Tom Taylor, who handles claims against the University BC/BS plan, agreed with Walls’ figures. "Out of 13,500 students insured by the University BC/BS plan, only one student has needed more coverage this year,” Taylor said, “and even then he was able to transfer to another type of non-group insurance plan.” However, Taylor recommrnHprl million in deciding what is enough coverage for the average student. If you have little or no medical coverage, keep this information in mind. Complete, comprehensive insurance coverage in case of major accidents is not too expensive, probably because few people ever have to take advantage of their insurance coverage. However, just one accident can result in a financial catastrophe for your family and loved ones. Insurance merits a close, careful look.