Mental health careers open
Most mental health majors students of psychology, psychiatry, sociology or nursing schools cannot receive adequate on the job experience prior to graduation. However, a program stressing pre-graduate exposure to different areas of mental health practice can help the student decide what he should major in and whether or not the mental health area is right for him. The program is called the Colorado Work-Study Program on Mental Health, and has been in operation since 1959. Mental health majors are allowed to work in various institutions in Colorado, including the Colorado State Hospital in Pueblo and Denver General Hospital, in real situations involving the mentally ill. Dr. George Rivera is codirector of the project along with Judson Pearson, while Bob McClendon and Peggy Doyle are associate directors. The project administrators are attempting to fill at least half of the 55 available slots with minority group students.
“In the past,” Dr. Rivera said, “only a few Chicanos have participated in the program. We’re hoping we can rectify this situation.” Students will accompany staff members on hospital rounds and will be able to observe and participate in actual situations arising in the institution. “We won’t have students emptying bed pans or scrubbing floors,’ Rivera said, “they’ll be getting real experience under the supervision of professionals.” Bob McClendon stressed the fact that “experience, not money, is the real reward of this program.” “Most of the students who participate in the program get valuable recommendations from their supervisors. After graduation the students often find employment at program training centers," McClendon said. Ms. Doyle noted the various areas of study the program offers. “The students can work with teenagers, adults or the aged. In fact, we ask the applicants to specify an area of interest,” she said. While a 2.75 grade point average has been required for admittance to the program, this requirement may be waived if the student shows potential and has three recommendations from instructors and/or administrators. Each program participant will receive $65 a week and four hours of credit in Sociology 489, the Sociology of Mental Health. In most cases students will have to pay room and board unless they can reside with parents or relatives. However, some institutions do have residence halls and some, like the Fort Logan Medical Center, provide the students' room and board. Interested mental health majors can pick up applications or inquire about the project at Hellems 351, ext. 6548, or can contact Dr. Rivera at Ketchum 13, ext. 6734.
