ACLU files suit against La Migra

Southern California ACLU, in conjunction with the Mexican-American legal defense and 
educational fund, filed a class action suit Friday, June 22, against the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service (1.N.5.). The historic suit charges indiscriminate and 
unconstitutional arrests and deportations of persons of Latin appearance, including 
American citizens and legal residents, who “by virtue of appearance have been and 
continue to be subject to arrest without probable cause or without reason to believe that 
there is likelihood of imminent escape.” In the past month 10,000 or more brown 
skinned persons have been rounded up without warrants, and in most cases without 
hearings or rights of counsel, and deported. Donald T. Williams, Acting District Director 
of 1.N.5., said that the raids would continue indefinitely in an attempt to decrease the 
“very heavy concentration of aliens illegally in the area.” Williams, also named as a 
defendant in the suit, said the “routine investigative efforts (of 1.N.5.) have been unable 
to cope with the problem.” Most of the raids have taken place at places of employment 
especially in the garment industry, at homes and at schools. Some people have been 
indiscriminately approached even at bus stops. "Die suit, supported by the Immigration 
Lawyers Association and C.A.S.A. (autonomous center for social action, a social 
movement fighting indiscriminate deportations), charges that all persons of brown skin 
are being subjected to a “systematic pattern of conduct and custom consisting of: Mass 
arrests without probable cause; Coercion and duress resulting in the signing of 
voluntary departure waivers; Physical assaults upon plaintiffs' persons and property; 
Forcible entry into homes with subsequent wanton destruction of personal property without 
justifiable cause; And other acts of violence, brutality, harassment, humiliation, and 
intimidation.” 

There are numerous violations of constitutional rights involved in the dragnet raids: 
freedom of speech, assembly, travel, privacy, security of one's person and property, 
denial of due process of law, equal protection of the laws and other blatant disregard
for rights and democracy. There are 12 named plaintiffs in the suit. Many of them are 
citizens of the U.S. or legal residents who were simply swept away by “overzealous” agents. 
Yolanda Loya was born in Texas but was forcibly removed by I.N.S. agents and deported without 
due process. No warrant for arrest was issued in her case or, for that matter, in anyone’s 
case. Max Anthony Duarte De A and Gerald Duarte De A are both U.S. citizens but were 
approached in their home by raiding agents. Their mother was ordered to produce proof 
of citizenship. An I.N.S. agent assaulted one son, took the legal documents and fled. 
Hours later other agents returned to the house and shipped the entire family to Tijuana, 
Mexico. Velia Limon heard her neighbor Bertha Duarte De A scream. She ran to the 
house. When she inquired what was happening, she was assaulted. Rogelio Duenas 
was accosted in GAS.A’s office at 9:00 AM, June 5 while washing his face. He was 
grabbed, handcuffed and told that the agents didn’t need an arrest warrant since he was 
a “wetback.” The suit is supported by affidavits from Dolores Avalos and Maria Guzman, 
both residents of Harbor City and American citizens, who observed some 20 I.N.S. 
agents raid an apartment house located at 253rd St. in Harbor City in the early morning of June 
5. "These officers were shoving people of Mexican descent into vans parked out front 
of the apartment building. I saw the I.N.S. officers entering the 
apartments without knocking," wrote Dolores Avalos. “One fourteen year old boy,” 
wrote Maria Guzman, "was treated extremely roughly by these officers.
Although he was not resisting or struggling, he was handcuffed and pushed around very 
harshly. I observed a bruise on his head. One of the officers had a gun drawn and 
pointed at him.” This method of treating people reminds one of the 1954 LA raids which 
netted I.N.S. officials 1,101,223 deportees (by their own count). Too much of the history 
of Mexican-American relations has been replete with arrests, beatings, killings, and 
deportations of millions of persons with brown skin. The ACLU is suing for immediate 
relief from these dragnet raids. It first filed for a temporary restraining order as 
a step to a permanent injunction. In addition, pecuniary damages for each named plaintiff 
of $lO,OOO or more is requested. 

* The ACLU knows that these terror methods do not solve any problems but instead create 
many. Moreover, such illegal actions constitute a frightening disregard for democratic 
rights and procedures.

