Wounded Knee was only the start
by Regina Brave-Dixon

You wonder why the American Indian Movement (AIM) has been trying to abolish the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA)? Since its inception, first under the War Department and 
now under the Department of the Interior, the BIA has done all it • could to terminate, 
exterminate and annihilate Indian tribes : through its various programs. They’ve 
recruited Indian people into their law enforcement programs not to help Indian people, 
but to intimidate and harass them. First, an Indian BIA police officer bayoneted Crazy 
Horse at Fort Robinson;then a BIA police agent shot and killed Sitting Bull; and just 
last week, Joe Clifford, a BIA agent, shot and killed Pedro Bissonette, AIM leader and 
vice-chairman of the Oglala Sioux Civil Rights Organization. The Oglala Sioux Civil 
Rights Organization has been primarily responsible for trying to impeach Richard 
Wilson, Tribal Chairman, and for bringing AIM to the Pine Ridge Reservation which led 
to the takeover at Wounded Knee to dramatize the dictatorship of one man under the 
auspices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Through court orders made by Richard Wilson 
through the Oglala Sioux Tribal Court’s Chief Judge, Theodore “Red” Tibbitts and 
enforced by BIA police and the FBI, the Wounded Knee Legal Defense/Offense 
Committee lawyers , Mark Lane, Carol Mugar, Ken Tilsen and Ramon Roubideaux were 
ordered to stay off the Pine Ridge Reservation. Pedro Bissonette, a leader in his 
community has been working with the lawyers and has been giving the Oglala people 
the incentive to stand up against Richard Wilson. He knew he endangered his own 
personal safety by staying on the reservation but he, like all the occupiers of Wounded 
Knee, chose to lay his life on the line for his Native American people. The situation in 
Pine Ridge is pretty tense since Russell Means and Clyde Bellecourt , in a news 
conference, said AIM will be returning to Pine Ridge. BIA police officers are riding four 
in a car and are heavily armed. The Oglala people are stirred up over what happened to 
Pedro and are uniting with AIM. Sunday night, 21 October, two BIA police officers were 
shot in Pine Ridge. One of them, Phillip Clifford, is the brother of Joe “Buzz” Clifford 
(killer of Pedro Bissonette). Bissonette's funeral was scheduled for Tuesday, 23 
October, 10:00 a.m. in Wounded Knee. If you can help defray the legal costs of the 
Wounded Knee and Custer Courthouse defendants, send your contributions to: 
Wounded Knee Legal Defense/Offense Fund Box 147 Rapid City, South Dakota 
57701.

