Another view of the University police

Another version of the June 12 incident involving four local Chicanos and several members of the University Security Force has been reported to El Diario. The original article, entitled ‘University Police Called Racist,' (duly 13 El Diario) centered on the incident itself, with some mention of what occurred afterwards. Yet actions after the incident may be the real news and may reflect the real situation. Ron Vigil said police officials from both the city of Boulder and the University police force had agreed that a

solution to the problems could be worked out through negotiations. “We negotiated with the knowledge that both sides were partly at fault in the incident,” Vigil said. Vigil and the other Chicanos had several meetings with Dean Dennis Small, Director of the University's Human Relations Center. Small then met with Boulder Ass't. District Attorney, Bill Wise. "We realized that there existed a need for positive and improved relations between law enforcement officers and ethnic groups, especially the Chicanos and Blacks," Small said. Dean Small and the four

Chicanos then with Assistant D.A. Wise and Lieutenant Dave Evans of Campus Security. “It was most apparent to me that there was an honest expression of feelings at the meetings,” Small said, and he called the meetings “a sincere effort to reconstruct the incident and to arrive at a fair evaluation (of what happened).” As a result of the meetings, all charges against Debby Trujillo, Ron Vigil and Dan Vigil were dropped, and all but one of the charges against Eugene Trujillo were dropped.

“There was common agreement among all parties involved that a fair decision had been reached,” Small said, “and that the door was open for improved communications between law enforcement officers and ethnic groups.’ The University Security Force has initiated a training program tor Security Force officers, and will conduct sensitivity seminars so that similar incidents will not occur again. Small credited much of the progress in minority group-police relations to Lieutenant Evans and Assistant D.A. Wise, whom

Small characterized as “willing to work for real progress in relations between Chicanos and police.” “The police administrators are open to constructive change,” Ron Vigil summarized, "and are willing to learn more about Chicanos and minority groups in general.” Vigil is asking for more input from Chicano students in order to provide a more complete picture of Chicano-police problems. He can be reached by calling 447 8584, or your ideas can be brought to El Diario , UMC 416.