UMAS Recreation planning a variety of activities

UMAS recreation is organizing a Bowling tournament for Nov. sth from 10 - 1 in the 
UMC games area with four or five Chicanos & Chicanas to a team and it will be a single 
elimination tourney. Prizes will be given, so all interested persons should sign up by 
Nov. 2nd at TB-1, Rm. 209. A meeting for Chicanas concerning a Conditioning Program 
is scheduled for Oct. 24th at UMC 158A. The meeting will be for all Chicanas interested 
in keeping in shape or getting in shape. All Chicanos interested in signing up for a 
Wrestling team should sign up at TBI or at the Rec. Center. It is very important that all 
interested wrestlers organize as a team because last year Chicanos could have walked away with the team trophy but they 
weren't organized as a team. Last year four Chicanos placed first and two others 
captured second place in their respective weight division. -- Anyone wishing more 
information on all UMAS recreation activities should contact Rich Castro, Carl Medina, 
or Anna Sanchez ext. 7244 in Rec. Center Rm. 136 or UMAS recreation coordinator 
Aurelia Baca and Henry Trujillo, TBI Rm. 209, ext. 8316. UMAS recreation officials urge 
that more Chicanos take advantage of the recreation center. You’re paying for the 
facilities the building offers, sodon’t let your money go to waste. 
Anyone wishing publication or sports coverage on any recreation activity should 
contact Sam Armijo at ext. 8836. The intramural program is a service program to help 
satisfy your recreational needs. There are a variety of sports activities one should take 
advantage and organize a team. With the intramural football coming to a close, we saw 
three Chicano teams participating. Los Camposinos, Los Panales and the Wild Bunch. 
Los Camposinos finished with a 3-2-1 record for the season and finished in third place 
in the White league. Los Panales were tied for 1 st place in the Red league with 
Bacchanal. They were in the playoffs and unfortunately lost to Arnett Hall 14-8. 
They finished the season with a 6-1 record. The Wild Bunch 
finished in 3rd place in the Blue league. They protested a game with Black Hash, last 
years’ defending champs, because of officiating but lost in the rematch 6 to 0. They 
finished with a 5-2 record for the season. All three Chicano teams finished in third place 
or better and should be complimented for their fine efforts. In water polo the Chicano 
team in the National league made it to the playoffs and won their first game of the first 
round 18-11 against Chi Psi Frat. They advanced to the 2nd round and played the un-
defeated Baker team the 22nd. Two Chicanos are participating in intramural racket ball. 
Anthony Campos in Flight A. and Toby Marez in Flight B. Toby is presently the number 
1 seated player in his Flight. Rich Castro said more Chicanos are desperately needed 
for officiating in all intermurals and anyone interested should contact him in Rm I 36. 
Rec. Center. An intermural X-Country Run 1 1/2 miles long is being organized for Oct. 
31st. A team consists of five men and entries are due Oct. 29th, trophies will be given to 
first and second place teams. Entry fee is 50 cents per team.

