Jose Calderon charged in Gonzales incident
by Skip Ball

Although very little has been written about what actually happened the night of a 
scheduled lecture here by Texas congressman Henry B. Gonzales, what didn’t happen 
is gradually becoming clear. From the acquittal of Jess Vigil, the person about whose 
guilt Henry B. Gonzales claims there was “no question,” and detailed accounts of the 
meeting with Gonzales the afternoon before his scheduled talk, it is clear he was no 
defender of free speech. And yet it is allegedly for violating this man’s free speech that 
this university and others are trying to railroad Jose Calderon out of the university 
system and possibly out of the country too. So who violated whose right to free speech? 
And did Calderon disrupt or interfere with Henry B. Gonzales? Jose Calderon’s right to 
teach and maybe even his right to remain in this country rest on the answer to these 
questions. The answer to the first question is easy. Both the tape of the meeting with 
Gonzales and Gonzales' rather candid account of the meeting (officially transcribed by 
Ace Federal Reporters Inc.) indicate all Gonzales had to say about Calderon was “he is obviously 
handicapped; he doesn’t have coherent control of the language; and he obviously does 
not have enough education to use for words as their meaning would call for.” Calderon, 
who has a masters degree from the University, was not given the simple courtesy of 
finishing his statement without interruption. So it is clear Gonzales not only had no 
respect for Calderon’s right to free speech but had none for his intelligence, either. The 
question, then, is did Calderon extend the same denial to Gonzales? Calderon makes 
no claim to having any political respect for Gonzales but the facts show that he neither 
disrupted Gonzales nor prevented him from speaking. He did politically attack him when 
asked by those then in control of the stage to say a few words about Gonzales. This 
time Gonzales listened, or at least he did not interrupt. So, for his expressed opinion of 
Gonzales Jose Calderon has been accused of denying the Texas Congressman's right 
to free speech, violating academic freedom and is thus scheduled
to be barred from the further freedom to disseminate his ideas. The issues are that simple, but if 
Calderon is convicted those simple issues will set in motion a grandiose scheme to do to Calderon 
what he is falsely accused of doing to Gonzales, a man who since the incident has not 
been deported, has not been silenced on the House floor, has not been hounded and 
harassed for his political ideas and who was financially awarded for his non-speech Aug. 11. 
In a recent interview with Calderon, he said the president of the University of Northern Colorado (UNC) 
where he currently teaches Sociology, has already moved to get him fired. "He says I violated 
academic freedom in the Gonzales affair and so I should not have the right to academic 
freedom. If I get convicted of these charges he will probably succeed," Calderon said. 
“Besides that, these kind of convictions will be dragged up as excuses to use the 
Rodino bill (if it passes) to victimize politically active Chicanos.” In case Calderon does 
not think so, the FBI has already informed him that a complaint against his status as a 
naturalized American citizen has been lodged. He does not know the details of the 
complaint but his conviction on such a complaint is all it takes to deport him back to 
Mexico where he was born. There is little doubt that Calderon was charged from the 
Gonzales incident because of who he has become since he left the University. But 
charging him is only the beginning of an attack on his political activity and position.
The Northern Colorado Chicano Liberation Defense Committee needs all the help it can 
get to stop the attack on Jose Calderon. Contributions can be sent to 919 A St. in 
Greeley, and all prominent people, especially professors who oppose the attempt to 
railroad him, should endorse me case. Only a really big defense effort can beat these 
charges and stop the University’s campaign against Jose Calderon's academic and 
political freedom. A Chicano mass will be held every Sunday at 12:30 at 
St. Thomas Aquinas Church, 14th and Aurora. The UMAS-EOP English component will 
be offering evening tutorial sessions this fall at TB-I, Room 107. Tutors will be available 
Mon. 4:00, 6:00 and 8:00- 1:00 p.m. Tues., 6:00-11:00; Wed. 4:00, 6:00 and 8:00-10:00; 
and Thur., 6:00-11:00. For more information contact Cleo Jaramillo at TB-1 Room 204 
or 443-221 1, ext 8316.

