Chicano senator notes progress
 TO UMAS:
Ten months ago the UMASEOP program was in a most critical stage of existence. We had lost a director and assistant director, many component coordinators left their jobs or were fired, and the UMAS student body president was thrown out of the university along with over fifty of his supporters. The confusions, complications, and frustrations of ten months ago left UMAS with its highest student dropout rate for a single semester. A four month period elapsed, including the entire summer program, in which not one UMAS general assembly was called. There was a significant split and a dangerous lack of communication between the UMAS-EOP staff, Chicano faculty, and the UMAS students. These problems, combined with an infinite number of other complications, were literally tearing the UMAS organization apart. It was my belief that the only safe assumption concerning UMAS at this point in its development was that the old ways of UMAS were no longer effective. UMAS confrontational tactics, in the form of protest marches and rallies, did not force university decision in favor of UMAS. To further complicate matters a conservative and racist university student body president was elected. Our organizational funds were then in jeopardy along with the threat of UMAS being forced to have open meetings, a situation which would allow anglos to attend and participate in UMAS meetings and business.
This was the UMAS situation six months ago when the entire organization gave five Chicanos their support in the ASUC senate elections. Prior to this time ASUC had been exclusively reserved for fraternities and for those students who possessed both money and vast amounts of leisure time. Many changes in UMAS and ASUC have resulted in a short span of only six months. UMAS has made this university do a complete turn around. We have played the system’s game and won. Never before had there been Chicanos on the ASUC senate, never before had Chicanos been involved in determining university policies pertaining to the various joint boards, never before had Chicanos been able to speak as student body leaders to both university administrators and faculty, and never before had any UMAS student realistically conceived of being a university student body president. In six months the new tactics of UMAS have made more positive gains than any other minority student organization in the nation, and it is my belief that we have only scratched the surface as to what our true potential can be. This last semester was the lowest student dropout rate in UMAS history, FIESTA DE LA GENTE was a beautiful success, and there were well over two hundred students at our last general assembly. These are significant gains which the UMAS organization as a whole can be very proud of achieving, but we will not stop nor will we be satisfied with what we have achieved thus far. Presidential and senate elections are taking place now. UMAS students, being outnumbered by more than twenty to one at this university, need to play the politics that have so often kept us from being recognized as a legitimate and viable force in the university structure. We are politically combining our votes with the votes of The Black Student Alliance, New American Movement, Gay Liberation, Women’s Liberation, Foreign Student Council, and many other organizations which are involved in a leftist struggle for equality, however, if we are successful we will have Chicanos controlling one third of the senate and one third of the presidency in the form of a triexecutive. UMAS winning this election is of paramount importance, but the Chicano senators have always taken the stand that winning an election or an issue is of absolutely no importance if we find that we are asked to shame, disgrace, or compromise the goals of UMAS. I am proud to state that we have never, nor will we ever, be placed in a situation of disregarding the UMAS goals. UMAS has performed some extraordinary achievements in six months, but we have so much farther to go! ; QUE VIVA LA RAZA! David E. Madrid UMAS Board of Directors Arts and Sciences Senator Feb. 16, 1973
