Counselors Assigned to Students

Counselor Supervisors for this academic year are Ernesto Valdez, Alfred Apodaca and 
Jose A. Martinez. According to Martinez, all MAP students should already have 
received word from their counselors as to the services available to all. Also, the 
counselors have tentative schedules which can be found at the MAP Counseling 
Services office in TB No. 1 or at 443-2211, Ext. 8492. The counselors for this year are 
Alfred Herrera, Tom Ornelas (494-4070); Al Lucero; Frank Ayala; Robert Garcia 
(4496194); Ricardo Salinas (443-2638); and Francisco Guerra. Also, Dean Lovato, 
Ernest Martinez; Rogelio Salinas (4432638); John T. Hernandez; Tom Gutierrez, 
Edward Torrez and Clifford Mansanares. Richard Hernandez (449-5657); Mario 
Salinas (443-2638); Samuel Herrera (494-3637); Ben Medina; Scott King; John 
Gallegos (449-1753) and Arlene Mansanares. Sibyl Lopez is the Counselors’ Secretary, 
she can be reached 443-2211, Ext. 8492, if you are not sure of your counselor and his 
schedule. Counselors’ primary responsibility is to establish a working relationship with 
the counselee (MAP student). They tend to develop confidence in students who have 
gone through the hard first year of college life, thus, aiding the new students settle into 
academic life with ease. The counselors are available to arrange tutorial session for' 
their counselees in their weak areas. The counselees need only call the office and 
speak with anyone at the Counseling Services. Give them your name and the subject 
you need help in, in addition to the hours you are available. In return, they will set up a 
session at both your convenient time and the tutors free time. During the hassles of 
registration, scheduling and other administrative steps, the counselors make their time 
available to you. In order to accomplish this, the counselors must be aware of your 
address and your phone number and any changes in either. The counselors are held 
responsible for any messages you may receive through the MAP office. Thus, if any 
changes are made in either of the above please notify Sibyl Lopez, secretary at 443-
2211, Ext. 8492. As a MAP student you have many facilities that can make your 
academic life tolerable, don't hesitate to use them.

Concha Appears in Marat/ Sade

Connie “Concha" Romero is appearing in Marat/Sade. a play by Peter Weiss. Opening 
night was October 10th and it will continue through the 14th. The play will be presented 
by The University Department of Theatre and Dance at 8:00 p.m. nightly at the 
University Theater. I Marat/Sade, which takes place during the French Revolution, 
concerns itself primarily with the problems of the Revolution. It brings to (reality the 
present problems of police states and bombs. The plays raises the question of where 
the borderlines of sanity lie. Connie depicts a nun. She enters in the First Act. I 
Connie feels that this small (part will help her in her goal as a student of Drama and I 
Theatre. Her future goal as an actress is to endure and overcome obstacles before 
being able to receive leads in future plays at the University. Connie’s future activities 
will involve taking part in Las Posadas during Christmas. She is also attempting to 
organize a small production involving children of University students.

