Associated Foreign Students down on Chile takeover

RESOLUTION 

We, the AFSUC, freely constituted as a General Assembly and 
responding to current events in Chile, declare the following: 1.) We regard the 
coup d’etat carried by the military against the constitutional government of Chile as 
outrageous, repulsive and opposed to the ideals of democracy and social justice. 2) 
We are well aware that the weapons, the ammunition, the training of officers and the 
financial support for the military that the United States so readily supplied to Chile 
(during the same period of time it was efficiently boycotting the Chilean economy 
through the major international financial-aid institutions and American controlled 
multinational concerns) not only made the shameful coup d’etat possible, but inevitable. 
We take this distinct intervention of the United States in the internal affairs of Chile as 
another example of American imperialism so evident in the third world. We are angered 
at the fact that the so called “national interest” of the United States, as defined by the 
ruling classes of this country, is so criminally opposed to the predictable and irreversible 
emancipation of Latin America. We regard American foreign policy, by systematically 
supporting the ruling military fascism throughout most of Latin America, for the evident
purpose of perpetuating a “profitable” socio-economical system based on the massive 
exploitation of the people and the enrichment of Latin American repressive and brutal 
oligarchies, as morally wrong, hypocritical, erroneous and truly dangerous. 3. We 
demand a stop to the massive assassinations going on at this moment in Chile. We 
demand the unconditional subordination by the military junta to the universal 
declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, and the immediate creation by the 
U.N. of an International supervisory commission to guarantee it. This includes the 
human treatment and liberation of all political prisoners; the prompt calling for elections 
under an atmosphere of freedom to manifest ideas and organize, and the restoration of 
the right of the people of Chile to determine their future. Otherwise, we demand a strong 
set of sanctions to the military junta by decision of the security council of the U.N. and a 
world wide severing of diplomatic relations with Chile. 4. We call on world opinion to 
strongly solidarize with the people of Chile and reject the military junta that illegitimately 
usurped power. Finally, we emphatically demand the United States to respect the patent 
will of Latin America to liberate itself once and for all from the five centuries of 
exploitation by the western world.

