Padilla, Saldana succeed in degree programs

Francisco Padilla, a senior teaching assistant with the Spanish Department, is presently 
teaching UMAS Spanish 101 and the University Spanish 105. Padilla, originally from El 
Paso, Texas, attended the University of Texas at El Paso before becoming a student 
here during the Fall of 1971. Padilla also attended the University of Jalapa in Veracruz, 
Mexico for nine months. At Jalapa, he studied the Nakuatl language, which is the 
language spoken by Aztec and Maya Indians of Mexico. Any one interested in learning 
the basics of Nakuatl may contact Padilla. Here at the University, Padilla's objective is to 
motivate the Chicanos to enroll in Spanish courses to help perfect themselves and
bring this enrichment to their communities. Padilla has noted in his students the "street 
Spanish” in such words as "wacha", “parqueate," and others. Padilla does not believe 
students should lose this part of their language but enrich themselves by also knowing 
the “Standard Spanish." Padilla believes everyone can make it in school. He has been 
able to prove his high school teachers wrong in their belief that he would never make it 
in a University. "Si se Puede.” Jose Saldana, del Valle de Tejas (Brownsville, Texas), 
studied by correspondence at the University of Mexico. In 1966, Saldana attended 
Lamar Junior College in Lamar Colorado graduating as auto mechanic. During his
employment as a mechanic with city of Lamar, he met Art Extrada, Area Director of 
Colorado Migrant Council at the time. Art introduced Saldana to MAP in the University 
of Colorado. Through MAP, Saldana was able to study Spanish as a degree program. 
Saldana graduated in June of 1973 and is presently a teacher’s assistant with the 
University Spanish Dept. Saldana plans to enter the School of Law. Once again, a 
Chicano has proven he can overcome the obstacles before him, instead of become a 
great mechanic.

Sylvia Ahmed. Director of the Minority Student Medical Program, at the University of 
Colorado Medical Center will be on campus Wednesday night, November 7, 1973 at 
7:00 P.M. in U.M.C. Room i 57-A&B. .
Francisco Padilla, Teaching Assistant with Spanish Department.
Jose Saldana

