Safeway feeling boycott pressure

There were a number of developments during the last two weeks in the United Farm Workers Union boycott of lettuce, grapes and Safeway stores. Denver UFW'U workers have observed signs that Safeway is beginning to buckle under the steady pressure exerted by picketers. "We met with the Safeway officials who asked us to call off the boycott, and showed us an advertisement they would run if we would,’’ Carol Longoria said. The advertisement, which was run in several California newspapers, says in part, “Why don’t farm workers have the same rights as other workers?” The ad goes on to say “we at Safeway think they should." Longoria said that Safeway is in favor of the inclusion of farmworkers in the National Labor Relations Act, which among other things prohibits secondary boycotts. “Farm workers would lose one of the few effective weapons they now have in their fight with the growers,” Longoria said, “if boycotts were outlawed.” Longoria and other UFWU organizers have been working with officials of the King Soopers chain. “We’ve told King Soopers ‘you’ll be next’ after Safeway capitulates, and they’re thinking of running a similar ad,” Longoria said. Teamster violence Reports have been coming in from California about Teamster-sponsored violence against UFWU workers there. “At one field where the UFWU was picketing the Teamsters brought in 180 paid thugs," Longoria said, “and this group encircled the UFWU people and attacked them with chains, bats, and clubs.” A number of the UFWU people were injured, some critically. Police made only a few arrests. “We’re asking people to write Frank Fitzsimmons, Teamsters President, to ask him to stop this slaughter,” Longoria said. She eave the address as : Frank Fitzsimmons 25 Louisiana Avenue Northwest Washington. D.C. 20001

We hope to send Fitzsimmons 15,000 letters from Coloradans," Longoria said. Boulder march Approximately 250 university students and staff marched from campus to the Safeway store at 28th and Arapahoe in Boulder last Saturday. En route they passed the Kings Soopers store, where the chants of "King Soopers is next!” rang through the air (see related story.) The Farm Labor Task Force is continuing to rally support in the university community for the boycotts and strikes. Both Phil Martinez and Jose Ortega are working through FLTF to keep the Saturday picket lines manned. “We’re asking for volunteers to picket with us each Saturday," Ortega said, “especially now, with the end so clearly in sight."