AAP fails minorities
by Evelyn Martinez

The University’s proposed Affirmative Action Plan fails to answer some crucial 
questions in regard to the recruitment and hiring of minorities at the University. Barbara 
Jones, Affirmative Action Officer, submitted the revised draft to the Department of 
Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) last month for their approval. HEW has not yet 
responded or indicated any approval of the plan. In an October 1 meeting with Jones, 
representatives from the Faculty Council, Council of Deans, the Affirmative Action 
Committee, and the Task Force on Minorities failed to answer the following questions: 
—Why has the Affirmative Action Officer only written a plan for the Boulder campus, 
when it’s obvious that a university-wide plan is needed in the four campuses of the 
university? The representatives at the meeting instead discussed the reorganization of 
the central administration, where there would be an Affirmative Action plan for each 
campus and the administration would appoint each director instead of leaving this to the 
Affirmative Action Committee. In viewing the present and past Affirmative Action records 
of the University administration, how can an Affirmative Action Officer (currently Mrs. 
Barbara Jones) be directly responsible to the office of the President be seriously 
considered? 

This discrepancy would allow the University administration to choose the Affirmative Action director 
on this campus. Instead, if this responsibility was directed to the Affirmative Action Board with 
minority representation, the influence of administering the Affirmative Action program 
would be taken away from the Administration and given to the board, who can better 
relate to and empathize with the problems of minorities. Why has the Affirmative Action 
Officer proposed the establishment of a local advisory board, which has no authority 
and can only recommend appropriate procedures? Currently, the Affirmative Action 
Task Force on minorities has the power to make recommendations to the director and 
the board to improve the Affirmative Action Plan, such as how to recruit a qualified 
Chicano, Black, etc. In the present procedure, the Affirmative Action Officer reviews the 
recommendations and makes her own decisions without consulting the board or the 
task force. Why does the Affirmative Action office insist on a structure which extends the 
conflict between the future Affirmative Action Officer and the Board? Presently, the 
Affirmative Action officer doesn’t promote the demands needed of the minorities. The 
University has their own standard of who is a qualified applicant for a job according to 
University criteria. More equitable criteria in selecting qualified minorities should be 
considered. The above four questions which so far remain unanswered are expected to 
be considered by the Administration. If they can answer these questions honestly, they must 
revise their present proposals for a fair and equitable Affirmative Action Plan at this 
campus. If the plan is implemented effectively, it can lead to increases in the number of 
minorities hired at the University. However, to be successful, it is more important to then 
concentrate on maintaining good working conditions and employee relationships 
between the minorities and the University????????
