Franco Explains MAS workstudy cuts’
Developments in the controversy over alleged cuts in the Mexican-American Studies component were revealed during the last week. According to Joe Franco, UMAS-EOP director, every staff member of MexicanAmerican Studies component who was left out of last semester’s realignment has been assigned to a new job with other UMAS-EOP supportive services. ' “I made it very clear to Chuy (Jesus Granado, coordinator of the component) that all his staff members would have jobs with UMAS-EOP. In fact, I told all other component heads to give his displaced work-study people top priority,” Franco said. “The problems stem from a lack of communication between faculty and administrative staff,” Franco said. He also noted that he had repeatably asked Granado for a breakdown of and justification for the large expenditure of hours (450 per week) by the component. “I received no reply to my request for a breakdown,” Franco said, ‘‘And I realized that several other components needed the work-study slots being used by the Mexican-American Studies) component. However, Jesus Granado’s version of what occurred differs from Franco’s version. "1 Heard a rumor that he (Franco) was going to cut my component,” Granado said, “but when I talked to Joe he said he was only thinking about it.” During a staff meeting Granado was told that his component would be cut from 30 to 10 staff members. After a lengthy discussion Granado was able to persuade Paul Acosta, UMAS-EOP assistant director, that he could get along with 16 staff workers, but couldn’t with only ten. Tile main point, according to Granado, is the fact that the cut in staff was announced before reasons for the cut were given.
“We’ve always helped out the Chicano students, so I don’t see why we were cut,” Granado said. Franco explained that three other components were given slots previously used by Mexican-American Studies. Those three components are the right to read component, the advising component, and UMAS Publications. “In the right-to-read component we have placed elementary and other education majors in a classroom situation where they not only get experience, but also get credit and work-study pay,” Franco said. In addition, three work study slots were assigned to the advising component (see related story). The remaining six work-study slots were assigned to the publication’s component. Franco pointed out that the realignment did not result from budgetary hassles, since he is trying to “keep on top of the budget” and utilize available funds "as best is possible ’ While acknowledging that some hassles were currently preventing full faculty-staff cooperation, Franco doesn’t think this will always be the case. “I expect that someday we’ll all be able to sit down and iron out our differences,” Franco said.
