
Poison Lettuce Found
By Ken Chavez
“DANGER KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Do not inhale Do not gel on skin Do not lake internally. Poisonous if swallowed, inhaled, or absorbed through skin or clothing. Wear a mask or respirator of a type approved by U.S. Bureau of Mines for protection against organophosphorous compound. Wear natural rubber gloves, protective clothing and goggles; in case of contact, wash immediately with soap and water. Wash hands, arms and face thoroughly with soap and water before eating or smoking. Wash all contaminated clothing with soap and hot water before reuse. Keep all unprotected persons out of the operating or vicinity where there may be danger of drift. Do not reenter sprayed areas until the spray deposit has dried. Do not store or transport with feed or food.” The above warning is found on the label of Monitor 4 containers. Manufactured by a division of Chevron Chemical Company, Monitor 4 is an organo-phosphate chemical used as an insecticide. However three thousandth of an ounce of Monitor 4 can kill a 150 pound man. The chemical attacks the central nervous system and it is accurate to call it a “nerve gas". Since December 22, 1972, there have been reports via the news media of lettuce contaminated with Monitor 4 insecticide reaching the American and Canadian consumer. Reports state most of deadly lettuce is coming from the Imperial Valley of California. The Valley has an estimated 38,000 acres devoted to lettuce crops. Also all the lettuce has been treated with Monitor 4 insecticide. Samples of lettuce from the valley have registered over one part-per-million (one ppm) of Monitor 4. Anything over 1 ppm is toxic to man. Claude Finnell Imperial County agriculture commissioner, said he was almost positive that none of the poisoned lettuce reached market. However, lettuce distributed to Rochester, New York was sampled and registered 6.5 ppm of Monitor 4, but was not available for seizure. There were twelve other cases during the month of January in which contaminated lettuce was discovered over different areas of the US and Canada. Only a token amount of lettuce was destroyed while much of lettuce was unavailable for seizure. Because of the Monitor 4 scandal the San Jose City Council voted to ban products sprayed with the chemical from the city. The Boulder Human Relations Commission may also recommend to the Boulder city council that products sprayed with the pesticide Monitor four be banned from the city. Other interesting facts are related to the Monitor four scandal. An estimated nine million heads of lettuce were contaminated by Monitor four at a conservative estimate. Much of Safeways’ lettuce comes from the Imperial Valley of California. The United Farmworkers union would not have allowed their members to pick the poisonous lettuce, so there would have not been any lettuce sold on the market. Despite the fact that the California Department of Agriculture was aware of the Monitor contamination, little was done about for over two months. The use of Monitor four on lettuce has been cancelled but it is still recommended for use on cabbage, brussel sprouts, cauliflower, broccoli, cotton and potatoes.
