Workers strike at Coors sudsidiary
The long arm of the Coors Brewing Company has reached into the midst of a Boulder hassle between Myers and Co. and its striking employees. Myers is the exclusive manufacturer of Coors labels and cartons and most of the paper needs of the Coors Brewing Company. Its employees are alleging inhumane working conditions and discrimination against longhairs, according to Joe Murphy, one of the striking employees. “We voted in a union last November,” Murphy said, “since then we’ve been negotiating with the company officials about a lot of things.” Some of the main employee grievances include inequities in wage scales, preferential treatment given male employees, the lack of a close (all-union) shop, and dangerous work conditions. Negotiations between the union, Local 40 of the International Pressmen and Assistants, and Myers broke down February 20, followed the next day by the firing of 30 employees for “long hair,” Murphy said. “Right after the negotiations broke down the company started enforcing a rule requiring us to either keep our hair short or wear hair nets,” Murphy said, “yet all the scab workers they’re hiring have long hair and don’t even wear nets.” Commenting on the other causes for the strike, Murphy noted that several sex discrimination suits are pending against Myers and Co. "A woman supervisor, for example, starts at $2.35 an hour, while a common laborer with no training starts at $2.50 an hour,” Murphy said. Another major employee grievance is the lack of company sick pay or funeral leave.
Negotiating in behalf of Myers is “Bud Lerton, one of Coors’ best lawyers,” Murphy said. “You might remember him, since he represented California growers against the United Farm Workers a few years ago,” he added. The employees want a closed shop because "in a place like ours union people have away of getting fired when everyone doesn't belong," Murphy said. The strikers applied for workmen’s unemployment compensation, but were told "you have your nerve” by a state employment agency official. However, the 30 employees laid off for long hair will probably get the benefits.
Murphy contends that the reason Myers is so adamant about the demands is not readily apparent. “At a couple of plants near Denver where they manufacture Coors cans the employees are going to vote whether or not they should unionize," Murphy said, “and if those employees see that we’re successful, they'll want a union, too.” So far the company has offered the strikers what amounts to "a pay cut of 50 cents an hour,” Murphy said. “We’ll win this strike if local people understand clearly what’s going on, and wjll help us by not crossing our picket lines,” Murphy said.
