We’re still here, folks!
After a somewhat trying semester during which only four issues of the Chicano newspaper “El Diario de la Gente” were published, prospects for a efficient, self-sustaining Chicano voice seem much improved for the Spring semester. Publication of "El Diario” began with a summer special edition which covered the activities of the 'll UMASEOP summer program. At that time the paper was published by two UMAS students for use as a recruitment brochure. Plans for fall semester publication of El Diario were based on a projected weekly publication of eight pages which would gradually become selfsupporting through advertising revenues. However, problems began to crop up almost immediately. First, publication could only be realized through the efforts of a qualified staff. Only one staff member of El Diario had any experience in newspaper publication, and he had to train other staff members while simultaneously trying to publish El Diario each week. Secondly, we had intended to rely heavily on volunteers from the UMAS organization, but we found that few Chicanos had the time or the inclination to work on “El Diario.” Mainly due to the lack of a qualified staff, “El Diario" was published only sporadically, and advertisers were lost because we could not deliver the goods on time. As the semester progressed, however, we found that volunteers were beginning to trickle in, and the paper began to become more professional and its publication chances much better. We begin the spring semester with high hopes, as we were allowed eight workstudy slots by Joe Franco, UMAS-EOP director.
Students majoring in journalism will now have a chance to get valuable training in various aspects of newspaper publication. Also, we intend to publish bi-weekly instead of weekly, which will give us time to prepare a much better newspaper, with more advertising revenues, greater dependability, and better coverage of Chicano news.
El Diario staff welcome your letters, comments and/or contributions. If you have something you wished to be published send your manuscript to El Diario, UMC 416, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, 80302. All letters must be typed, double-spaced, be limited to 300 words or less and be signed by the sender. Manuscripts will not be returned unless they are accompanied with a stamped, self-addressed envelope.
