Chicano: a proud name for proud people
by Sonny Montoya
The word Chicano is a proud name for a proud people. It is a name characterized by selfawareness and self-respect. But where does the word originate? The most popular belief is that ’Chicano' is the result of the Indian pronunciation of Mexicano (pronounced Me-shi-ca-noh). If such is the case, the first syllable is dropped and the Shi sould is replaced by the Chi sound to form “Chi-ca-noh”. Another theory asserts that the people of Chihuahua, a city and state of northern Mexico, took the “Chi” from Chihuahua and the "cano" from Mexicano to come up with Chicano. La Raza has many names for itself, those given by the white men and those we have given ourself: Hispano, Spanish Surname, Mexican, MexicanAmerican, Skag, Spanish etc. The word Chicano came into popular usage in an attempt to unify our people under one name and to avoid fragmentation that resulted from so many names for one people. For instance, Chicanos who would attempt to deny their Mexican heritage call themselves Hispanos, and show they feel Mexicans to be inferior. Even worse, some Chicanos call themselves Americans and attempt to deny their Spanish, Mexican and Indian heritage. This process is still easily
seen today. Some extremely racist statements have been made which can only keep our people apart, such as: “Chicano: A dissatisfied American of Mexican descent whose ideas regarding his position in the social or economic order are, in general, considered to be liberal or radical and whose statements and actions are often extreme and sometimes violent;” Edward Simmens, author. “Chicanos are a group of people not in the Hispano mainstream;" Betty Sepulveda, Denver educator. Although the literal meaning of the word Chicano is not certain, the word has come to symbolize strength and unity for the people of La Raza. It is our goal that someday the definition of Chicano will read: “Chicano: A people unafraid to keep their heritage no matter what the opposition or the cost.”

