What strength in La Chicana!

by Evelyn Martinez

Chicanos, in general, are all faced with oppression imposed on them by the White American system. However, one of the more oppressed sectors of the Chicano populace is the oppression felt by Chicanas. As a result of the growing awareness of Chicanas of their oppression, first as Chicanas, then as women, Chicanas have, to some degree, been influenced by the efforts of the current trends of the women’s liberation movement. Although the Chicana and the White Anglo woman share some similar values, the goals of the Chicana cannot always be paralleled with those of the Anglo. The Chicana is beginning to cast her traditional role of the housewife and mother, whose primary purpose in life is to love and serve her macho. The Anglo woman is stressing equality with the male; whereas the Chicana has emerged from her “hiddenness” to stand alongside her macho to help in the fight for total Chicano liberation from an oppressed system. She is struggling for change and the elimination of discrimination and other social injustices imposed on her proud Chicano people. The Chicana has played an active role in the struggle for her people since the Mexican revolution, when she fought alongside her husband as a soldada, many times assisting in the front lines with the other revolutionary women.

New image The traditional myth that Chicanas belong in the kitchen or home, barefoot and pregnant, serving her macho and strengthening her familia, is being cast aside for her new role in strengthening la raza. Chicanas are beginning to mobilize around demands that are relevant to them as women, such as birth control, equal job opportunities, and “the 3 right to control their own bodies’’. Through their struggles with their machos within the framework of American society, Chicanas will help to strengthen the overall movement of la raza. Chicanas are beginning to step out of the background and into the spotlight in community affairs. The Chicana is emerging as a strong motivating force in her community. She is finally taking the reins in the forefront of the Chicano movement and has established a positive mirrored image as she possesses community leadership roles. She has an outspoken voice in community affairs and community decisions, when she’s given a chance. i_.hicanas have shown themselves to be alert, forceful, and intelligent. This resulting new image of the Chicana is not so readily accepted by the Chicano, partly as a result of his feelings of male superiorism, or “machismo”. Chicanos are reluctant to accept the fact that some of todays Chicanas are breaking away from the traditional concept of la familia. Although the Chicana seeks new desires, she will never totally break away from her responsibility to her familia. Her strength; and unity completely hold her to the tradition bound concept of her responsibility to her familia first, la raza, secondly. The Chicano perceives the new image of the Chicana somewhat reluctantly with fear and suspicion. Chicanos are fearful of the new image because they are still bound to the traditional concept of the role of la Chicana and her submissiveness to males. Chicanos are amazed that Chicanas are demonstrating abilities that the Chicago always thought the Chicana was incapable of performing. He always saw her in the light of domestic duties in the home, only, therefore, he is suspicious of the new image because he doesn’t really understand it or doesn’t readily accept the new image. Education There are more educational opportunities available for the Chicana at major universities and institutions. Chicanas are now learning technical and professional skills, aside from those domestic skills of maintaining her role in the home. Through a higher education, the Chicana qualifies for better job opportunities in highly skilled professions and community services for la raza. Although the Chicana is progressing in educational gains, some Chicanos are critical of the educational gains of the Chicana as “a means to enable her to find a wealthy husband sooner, or to qualify for better jobs than the machos.” Chicanos at the University of Colorado are also critical of the educational gains sought by Chicana students. “Chicanas are inferior to men,” some have said or “It’s o.k. for Chicanas to come to college, but they still belong in the kitchen if they ever do get degrees; hopefully they will have been educated to cook better and educate the kids about more important things in life.” Criticism as, “Less than a small percentage (one “macho” has gone so far as to estimate less than 0.3 per cent) of Chicanas who come to the university are serious about actually getting a degree; they’ve just come to find a husband who can better fulfill their economic needs or their insecurity.” The relevance of an education for the Chicana should not be questioned. Chicanas should be educated to adequately provide their family with care, nutrition, education of the children, parental/child relationships, religion, etc. A chicana often has to go out and work to supplement her husbands low income, or often, as a result of her husbands sudden illness or death, she is dependent on for the sole support of her family. Linda Aguilar, director of community and public relations for the job corp in san Jose, California is quoted in a quarterly Civil Rights bulletin, "Chicanos must realize that women, too, need an outlet for their creativity, need fulfillment, need to utilize their talents, and most of all need to be able to earn a living to upgrade their lives.” “Deprive us of a decent living because we are women and you will also deprive Chicanos of a better future, for in depriving us, you deprive our children, and our children are the future,” she says.