Uncertainty surrounds ‘BOG’by Evelyn MartinezIn an apparent attempt by the Nixon administration to curb minority educational programs, the Basic Opportunity Grant (BOG) has been introduced to Congress through the Educational Amendments Act of 1972. The BOG is presently being considered by Congress, which has no later than June 1, 1973 to implement the bill. BOG will operate under an 'entitlement' concept in which everybody who applies for financial aid will receive it. Under BOG provisions, every student, non-minorities and low-income whites included, will apply for financial aid at the federal level through the Office of Education in Washington, D.C. The student submits a certified family contribution statement with his BOG application and an award amount is determined by the Office of Education based on a need analysis. The amount of the students award at full funding cannot exceed one half the actual cost of his attendance at an educational institution. For example, for a single student attending CU his estimated budget is $2400. Under BOG guidelines the student could qualify for no more than $ 1200 for the entire year. Depending on the need analysis, he may get less. There are several alternatives posed to the BOG. If BOG is not implemented by June 1, the Educational Opportunity Grant (EOG) will continue to be in effect for next year. If the BOG is implemented, there is a possibility that EOG can continue to be funded. If this happens there will be more monies available for more students. BOG may completely "replace" the current EOG. If implemented BOG will definitely create a great impact of changes for all students applying for financial aid. According to Mark Heffron, Director of Financial Aid, "Right now the information concerning the BOG is so uncertain. Nothing is definite because of the current battle between Congress and the Nixon administration. Joe Franco, UMAS-EOP Director said, "If BOG is implemented and is fully funded along with EOG, it's great. It will create more monies for more students. Concerning our issue of parity at this campus, if the amount of student financial aid is over and above the current amount, we can bring in more students," he said. In adhering to the entitlement concept, if there aren’t enough funds available to fully fund all students according to their need, provisions might be made for the reduction of every applicant's grant until there is enough money to fund everybody entitled to financial aid. For example, BOGs of more than $l,OOO will be reduced by approximately 25%, $BOO grants by 30%, and grants of $6OO or less would be reduced by 50%. These greater reductions will enable more studentsto qualify. Heffron said, “The entitlement concept of the program is good because it will open more doors. People who previously hadn’t intended on furthering their education now will have the opportunity to do so.” This will be possible in large part to the federal funding that will be available to approximately 500 proprietary institutions, including private schools, beauty schools, etc. According to Heffron, “The chances of implementing the BOG for 1973-74 academic year look pretty slim at this point, although the latest word from Washington is that EOG renewal will be funded in addition to the possibilities of funding BOG.” This means that students who are currently receiving EOGs will receive EOGs next year and possibly receive a BOG, lessening their loans through more grant money. Jerry Soliz, Assistant Director of Financial Aid said he hopes the BOG will not be approved for the 1973-74 academic year because of the mass confusion and discouragement it will impose on the students. He said, "There will definitely be problems inconsidering the length of time it will take to process each student’s application”. According to Soliz, "if the program is implemented after June 1 there will not be sufficient time for the financial aid office to set up a financial aid package for each student.” "We can’t set up a package here until we receive some indication from the federal level as to how much money the student is entitled to. It may be weeks before the student receives his money,” he said. In addition to changes with grants, there is also a possibility that the current National Direct Student Loan (NDSL) may be replaced by the Federally Insured Student Loan. Under the FISL, the student will have to apply for loans from banks, payable at 7% interest. (NDSL) is currently payable at 3% interest). The FISL might pose problems for Chicanos and other low income peoples because of the hesitation of banks to grant loans to minorities and low income people because they lack adequate financial backing or good credit. However, Joe Franco said action is being taken to insurethat students may easily obtain loans regardless of their credit status and background. According to Franco, the federal government will allocate a percentage of money to banks to be available to students as long as they are registered in an educational institution. It will then be the banks' responsibility to collect the money. A third possible source of financial aid may be available through the Colorado Student Loan Program. However, funding will be available in small amounts. In regard to the possible dissolving of UMAS, MAP, and other EOP programs, Tom Trujillo, Assistant Director of Admissions and Records said. “UMAS, MAP will not totally dissolve because of the need for the supportive services of UMAS, MAP. We will also definitely need to keep our flexible admissions policies," he said. Trujillo said the UMAS-EOP program has a definite 90% commitment of funding for students next year. He estimates 350 new students in the summer program with an additional 50 in the fall, totaling 400 students.