After last year’s stunning victory -
Why did Chicano ASUC candidates lose in this year's elections?

por Kathy Kanda

After last year's stunning victories in ASUC elections and this semester's overwhelming defeat, the future role of Chicanos in student government hangs in limbo. In fall 1972 five UMAS students combined forces with New Directions Coalition (NDC), a group of liberal/radical students. Together they won a voting majority on the ASUC Senate. This was a tremendous blow to the conservative Peter Solomon ASUC administration, and also the first time Chicanos were in a viable position of strength in student government. UMAS and NDC repeated their success in spring 1973. The executive ticket included Jess Vigil and two more Chicano senate candidates. But this semester, only one of six Chicano candidates won; and the winner, Martin Gonzales, ran unopposed Although UMAS candidates won the most votes in the primary election, most people said they were not very surprised when they lost in the final election.

Most of the candidates and other observers said they felt the loss was caused by a "backlash" reaction to previous elections. What they disagree on is where to go from here. At-Lqrge Senator Ben Romero, who was elected last spring, said many "apathetic" people came out to vote simply because the Chicanos were first in the primary and they did not want Chicanos to win the final. Bill Lechuga. one of the losing candidates agreed. "The whites didn't care who they voted for as long as they weren't Chicanos," Lechuga said. Several people mentioned negative press about Chicanos as one reason many whites "•acted against them in the elections.

Tri-Executive Patty Price said much of the backlash was "because of all the misinformation about UMAS was getting money" and because of the lettuce boycott controversy. Arts and Sciences Senator Dan Gomez pointed out that most students fail to recognize that UMAS and NDC funded more organizations with more money than ever before not just UMAS. Tri-Executive Paul Boetcher said he felt the Chicano platform was the best in terms of both issues and clarity, and therefore, should have been in their favor. However, he and others suggested that this campaign was, perhaps, less organized and intensive than the past two. Gomez explained that last fall there was more enthusiasm because students were so opposed to Solomon that they were motivated to vote just for that reason. Now that the elections are over, the main

question Chicano students must answer is a philosophical one: should we try again this spring? Disillusionment with the liberal white voters in the recent election seemed to be a key factor. While some discounted this as the most important issue and hope to continue participation in student government, others advocate an end to it. This semester's decision to form a coalition with the women's liberation candidates was both good and bad, Gomez said. He said the women brought many votes to the Chicanos, but the coalition might have been a poor one politically. Romero said he attributes the loss to "a coalition of the vacillating white liberals and "reactionary right-wing racists." By exposing themselves, Chicanos now know who they are fighting, and Romero said this is why Chicanos will have a good chance to win next time. J-Ie maintains the position that they can destroy the system by

"The whites didn’t care who they voted for as long as they • weren't Chicanos.”

working from the inside. Vigil doesn't agree. "It’s time for Chicanos to go back to being unpredictable to go back to the old tactics." By entering student government, Chicanos exposed themselves to the white student population," he said. "They’ve come to know us very well. They know too much." So in the future. Vigil said Chicanos should stay away from student government and the University. He said that three years ago UMAS was getting adequate funding, even though Chicanos were not active in ASUC. At that time, ASUC even contributed money to political defense funds, such as Corky Gonzales’ stemming from the Los Angeles Moratorium. The past year of student government participation has been worthwhile, he said, because “we learned who would sell us down the road.”