Cartas- Cartas- Cartas

A lesson in diplomacy 
Those of us sitting through the marathon of a school board meeting on Wednesday evening, June 25, 1973 were treated to an appalling example of lack of diplomacy on the part of the President of the School Board and display of total apathy for the needs of Chicano students by certain other board members. After spending 2.5 hours discussing the details of two proposals, the board allowed all of 20 minutes to a report calling for the establishment of an elementary Spanish program and a bilingual/bicultural Spanish program. Speaking in more specific terms; to publicly chide other board members for their lack of knowledge of district practices and/or parliamentary procedures is a very irresponsible and rude act on his part. I might add that 1 have witnessed similar acts towards community people in previous meetings. Just how important is parliamentary procedure if it is maintained at the expense of frustrating interested board members and community people? After the initial presentation of the report it was evident that the board was not too interested in offering guidance that the administration was looking for. Only after Mr. Peter Garcia pressed the issue of the need for such a program did other board members offer comment: and then only to point out obstacles to the implementation of such a program (ie. unamerican, dollars and cents, stressing Chicano culture over Danish culture, and failure of other bilingual programs). Two years ago the board expressed a commitment to support recommendations that would result from the Inter-Cultural Relations Program conducted this past year. Do we still have that commitment? This kind of action by the board president and other board members can destroy in a very short time the confidence and credibility that Dr. Ryan and other staff members have worked hard to establish. I might also add that to have the director of Elementary Education step out of the meeting while a subject that would have a profound impact on the elementary education and that he may be charged with implementing is being discussed is inexcusable and a serious affront to the Chicano community. Just what is his responsibility for directing educational programs for all students? Title 1 Bilingual Bicultural Summer Program Staff Richard Garcia Bobbv Moran

Correction 
I would like to correct a mistake made in an article on July 13. This article stated that 1 was a member of the University security force, which is a mistake. I am a security officer in the University Memorial Center. I have no connection with the University security force. My authority only lies within the U.M.C., itself. I also do not carry a badge as do regular police officers. Ron Vigil July 13, 1973 

Error noted 
In regards to the article printed in the July 13th edition of El Diario, “UMAS calls for Appenzeller’s resignation, hiring investigation”, I was misquoted as saying that I had been told that I was not qualified for the job. This is not the case, I have never been told this in person. lUmay have been implied to'Tess Vigil in his conversation with Mr. Appenzeller, but was not said to me. In fact Dr. Joe Johnson has urged me to submit an application for staff openings since the 7th of June. Sincerely, Richard Castro