Dedicated to our Indian brothers
Editor’s note: We wish to dedicate this letter to our Indian brothers who are presently involved in the struggle for basic human rights. We feel this letter clearly tells the world what this struggle is all about. We especially dedicate it to those men of the American Indian Movement who have recently laid it all on the line at Wounded Knee, S.D. (This is a letter written to the President of the United States, 1855, by Chief Seathl of the Duwamish Tribe of the State of Washington, regarding the proposed purchase of the tribe’s land. Or is it a prophecy?) The Great Chief in Washington sends word that he wishes to buy our land. The Great Chief also sends us words of friendship and good will. This is kind of him, since we know he has little need of our friendship in return. But we will consider your offer, for we know if we do not so, the white man may come with guns and take our land . . . How can you buy or sell the sky the warmth of the land? The idea is strange to us. Yet we do not own the freshness of the air or the sparkle of the water. How can you buy them from us? We will decide in our time. Every part of this earth is sacred to my people. Every shining pine needle, every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every clearing and humming insect is holy in the memory and experience of my people. We know that the white man does not understand our ways. One portion of the land is the same to him as the next, for he is a stranger who comes in the night and takes from the land whatever he needs. The earth is not his brother, but his enemy, and when he has conquered it, he moves on. He leaves his father’s graves behind and he does not care. He kidnaps the earth from his children. He does not care. His father’s graves and his children’s birthright are forgotten. His appetite will devour the earth and leave behind only a desert.. . There is no quiet place in the white man’s cities. No place to hear the leaves of spring or the rustle of insect’s wings. But perhaps because I am a savage and do not understand the clatter seems to insult the ears. And what is there to life if a man cannot hear the lovely cry of a whipporwill or the arguments of the frogs around a pond at night? The Indian prefers the soft sound of the wind darting over the face of the pond, and the smell of the wind itself cleansed by a mid-day rain, or scented with a pinon pine. The air is precious to the redman. For all things share the same breath the beasts, the trees, the man. The white man does not seem to notice the air he breathes. Like a man dying for many days, he is numb to the stench. If I decide to accept I will make one condition. The whiteman must treat the beasts of this land as his brothers. I am a savage and I do not understand any other way. I have seen a thousand rotting buffalos on the prairies, left by the white man who shot them from a passing train. I am savage and I do not understand how the smoking iron horse can be more important than the buffalo that we kill only to stay alive. What is man without the beasts? If all the beasts were gone, men would die from great loneliness of spirit, for whatever happens to the beast also happens to man. All things are connected. Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth ... One thing we know which the white man may one day discover. Our God is the same God. You may think now that you own him as you wish to own our iand. But you cannot. He is the God of man. And his compassion is equal for the redman and the white. This earth is precious to him. And to harm the earth is to heap contempt on its creator. The whites, too, shall pass— perhaps sooner than other tribes. Continue to contaminate your bed, and you will one night suffocate in your own waste. When the buffalo are all slaughtered, the wild horses all tamed, the secret corners of the forest heavy with the scent of many men, and the view of the ripe hills blotted by talking wives, where is the thicket? Gone. Where is the eagle? Gone. And what is it to say goodbye to the swift and the hunt, the end of living and the beginning of survival. We might understand if we knew what it was that the white man dreams, what hopes he describes to his children on long nights, what visions he burns into their minds, so that they will wish for tomorrow. But we are savages. The white man’s dreams are hidden from us. And because they are hidden, we will go our own way. If we agree, it will be to secure your reservation you have promised. There perhaps we may live out our brief days as we wish. When the last redman has vanished from the earth, and the memory is only the shadow of a cloud moving across the prairie, these shores and forest will still hold the spirits of my people, for they love this earth as the newborn loves its mother’s heartbeat. If we sell you our land, love it as we’ve loved it. Care for it, as we’ve cared for it. Hold in your mind the memory of the land, as it is when you take it, and with all your strength, with all your might, and with all your heart preserve it for your children, and love it as God loves us all. One thing we know our God is the same God. This earth is precious to him. Even the white man cannot be exempt from the common destiny.
