Hernandez and others speak to board of directors

Phil Hernandez, who is running for a seat on the Boulder city council, talked to UMAS 
Board of Directors’ members at their Monday night meeting, and discussed several 
important aspects of his campaign. Hernandez began by outlining his background and 
experiences in Boulder. “I’m a life-long Boulder resident, and I've seen the city change 
in a number of ways, but to a mostly upper-middle class city," Hernandez said. “For one, 
the city has very few places now that could be called barrios or ghettoes,” Hernandez 
said. The lack of low-income housing in Boulder and “the high price of housing has hurt many 
elderly people,” he said. However, Hernandez said that he was against more growth in Boulder. 
“While I am an anti-growth candidate, I do support rent stabilization that you as students can understand,” 
Hernandez said. Hernandez then talked about affirmative Action in the city of Boulder 
government. “I drafted the original plan for Affirmative Action hiring in the city 
government, but it was only a draft. City administrators have used the plan I drafted as a 
final plan, as the final word,” Hernandez said.

"I'm going to work for more citizen input into the Affirmative Action Plan, perhaps 
through a citizens’ advisory board for Affirmative Action,” Hernandez said, and added 
"we should emphasize all races.” Hernandez answered several questions about his 
effectiveness while Director of the Public Service Careers program for Boulder city 
government. One student asked why few Chicanos are working in the higher positions 
in city government, and Hernandez said "not enough pressure has been brought to bear 
on the city officials. I’ve had several arguments with (City Manager Archie) Twitchell and 
(Personnel Director) Mike Patton, but without pressure from community people, I can’t do much," 
Hernandez said. The discussion then turned to broader issues, such as the wisdom of forming alliances 
with ‘liberal’ politicians. “I don’t like to work with ’bleeding-heart’ liberals, but true liberals are 
the kind of persons we can work with,” Hernandez said. Hernandez said that true liberals were 
better than conservative politicians. “Would you rather see Walter Slack (a conservative 
businessman) on City Council or Rob Pudim (aregionally-known liberal cartoonist) on council?” Hernandez asked. 
When the discussion had somewhat abated, board members thanked Phil Hernandez for coming and took no 
action on his speech. However, towards the end of the meeting. Board members voted 
to allow an El Diario reporter to conduct an investigation into Hernandez’ statements 
and give a report to the Board by its next meeting. Financial aid Judy Sandoval, 
Chairman of the Financial Aid Committee, then proposed a resolution that a full-time 
person be hired to research financial aid hassles. After a long debate, the resolution passed, 
and work on finding funds for the research assistant was begun. "We're asking that people with 
complaints or comments about the financial aid system get in touch with people at the 
UMAS office or the ASUC office in the UMC,” Sandoval said. (The financial aid 
committee is the subject of several articles in this week’s Diario.) Coors boycott UMAS 
student Freddy Trujillo then brought up the subject of the Coors boycott and asked for 
UMAS support in his project. “I want to collect recyclable aluminum cans, take them to 
the Coors plant and cash them in, and then use the money to buy ‘Boycott Coors’ 
bumper stickers,” Trujillo said. Board members voted approval of his plan, and Trujillo 
then gave a short rap on the fact that the Coors boycott is still on. “I’ve got Coors 
boycott buttons for those who want them,” Trujillo said, “but 1 don't want any people to 
take them home and put them on dressers. If you want one, plan on wearing it.” Lettuce 
boycott Antonio Campos, a member of the Farm Labor Task Force (FLTF), then a talk 
about the march that was held Saturday. “We felt that the march was very successful,” 
Campos said, (see related story.)

The spokesman then talked about the Guiseppe’s boycott, a boycott of a restaurant that 
is primarily a Chicano hang-out.

“We've found that Anglo students are beginning to patronize Guiseppe’s in the absence 
of Chicanos,” Campos said. Two courses of action were proposed: first, that Carlos 
Alcala look into the legality of picketing Guiseppe’s, and second, that both Anglo and 
Chicano students be told of alternatives to Guisseppe’s, such as the UMC Tower Room, 
(the Tower Room recently began offering beer and food plus entertainment.) However, 
no motion was made or passed on the suggestions, and the discussion turned to other 
subjects. An UMAS symbol John Espinosa, who is coordinating efforts to have an 
UMAS symbol drawn, then gave a report on his progress. “We’ve had several entries, 
and each of them is good in its own way," Espinosa said. He suggested that all the 
artists be brought together and asked to work on one certain type of symbol for the 
organization. “We’re calling for Chicano artists to submit entries to the symbols contest," 
Espinosa said, and asked that artists call him at ext. 8836 for more information

