Tell a friend
CU Chicano Educational Programs have 400 openings
Advising The newest addition to the UMAS-EOP supportive services is the advising component. The advising component is designed to help Chicano students plan their areas of study or decide on the best major for a particular student. The component also helps students avoid those classes unrelated to their major or known to be "flunk-out" courses. In addition, advising component administrators coordinate activities for graduate students and for graduate study, as well as helping with career and job placement. Most of the information about g-aduate programs and minority oriented graduate news is funneled into the advising component, which in turn contacts students with an interest in this news. Since academic planning is such an important area of college life, the advising component is a very popular part of the UMAS-EOP supportive services.
Counseling Each freshman entry to UMAS is assigned a counselor who has faced and overcome the problems of the University. The counselor works with his students on a one-to-one basis, providing help in all aspects of college life. For example, if the student is having troubles with a class his counselor can recommend a tutor or take action to rectify the problem itself. The problem may be as small as a misunderstanding between the instructor and the student, or as large as a student’s desire to drop out. In any case, the counselor is there to help the student during that first difficult year of college life. Problems too large for the counselor to handle can be referred to component heads or UMAS-EOP administrators, who can then take correcting actions.
Mexican-American Study The 'Mexican-American Studies Department MAS offers a wide variety of classes for the Chicano student. During the summer term all entering UMAS-EOP freshmen are enrolled in a MexicanAmerican history or cultural oriented course. Course content consists of lectures on the Chicano in history, the modern day Mexican-American, and various other aspects of sociology. Several times during past summer programs, guest lecturers have given the students insight into different views of the Chicano world. For example, Jose Angel Guiterrez, founder of La Raza Unida, lectured about the role of MexicanAmericans in the American political system. During the fall semester the Mexican-American Studies Component offers several different classes on a variety of topics of importance io the Chicano. Different MAS professors teach classes in many disciplines, such as psychology, sociology, and the relatively new department of MexicanAmerican studies. Also, during the summer term MAS employs tutors for recitation classes where lectures
When considering college and university education, the Chicano highschool graduate or GED student should give the United Mexican-American Students and the Educational Opportunity Program top priority. UMAS-EOP supportive services are among the best in the nation, and can help the Chicano student get the most out of the University of Colorado educational experience. Our services include counseling, tutorial aid, academic advising, MexicanAmerican classes, writing and general English tutoring, financial aid assistance, work-study aid, concentrated services and even recreational activities. In addition, the University of Colorado is in itself one of the nation’s educational leaders. We have the best professors, most complete academic environment and the best overall educational program in the entire Southwestern United States. The following articles will describe in greater detail the supportive services UMAS-EOP has to offer.
Study Skills The combined tutorial and study skills component is an integral part of the UMAS-EOP supportive services. During the fall and spring terms the tutorial component provides tutors for Chicano students in almost every discipline. While tutors keep regular office hours, they can also be assigned to work on a one-to-one basis with the student at the student's dormitory. During the summer the tutorial component is in charge of a study skills class, where freshmen are taught some of the basic University survival skills: speed reading, taking essay and other types of tests, researching and other skills. Study skills instructors coordinate their lessons with the subject matter and assignments from other summer courses. For example, if a sociological abstract or a term paper is due in one of the summer courses, the study skills instructors may spend time on the proper way to do such an assignment. In this manner the tutorial component provides the Chicano students with several valuable services.
English The English component provides a variety of services for the Chicano student. Of basic importance to the incoming freshman Chicano are the UMAS-EOP English classes which vary in course content and difficulty. All summer students are enrolled in an UMAS English class, but the tentative plans for this summer’s English courses is somewhat different than what has been done in the past. Previously all summer program participants, no matter what their English background, were required to take English 100, Expository Writing. Students with better developed writing skills were sometimes held back by students who had had no exposure to the intricacies of writing. Proposed for this summer program are classes at varying levels, so that a Chicano with a strong English background might start a literature course while a Chicano having difficulties with English would concentrate on writing skills. In any case, UMAS-EOP English courses are designed for the Chicano student and are extremely valuable sources of information for students who must cope with a university run bv the written word.
Perhaps the most basic service provided by UMAS-EOP is financial aid, since most Mcxican-Ann , icans would probably never be able to afford a University education without it. Minority students at CU must file applications for financial aid each year. The financial aid is awarded according to need, and comes in a variety of forms. Awards which do not have to be paid back are given to students without financial resources to attend CU The most common types of grants are the Educational Opportunity Grant, EOG, Colorado Student Grant, CSG, and a type of gram still in the planning stages, the Basic Opportunity Grant, BOG Students are not just given money in a lump .urn; instead, tuition and housing costs are deducted from the grant and the remainder is often distributed over the school year in the form of monthly stipends. If a student fails to maintain a 2.0 grade point average his financial aid may be terminated, and if he fails to take enough hours to be a full-time student he may also lose his financial aid Work-study jobs are also part of the financial aid package in most cases. The student is referred to work which usually involves some aspect of study related to his major. __Every two weeks the student is paid for the number of hours he has worked. A work-study counselor is available to help the student with job assignments and other work-study matters. The work-study money also does not have to be repaid. National Defense Student Loans, NDSL, are also a part of the financial aid package. Freshmen students usually are awarded relatively small amounts ($l5O per semester this year) of NDSL, but the amount of loan in the package goes up with each successive year of study until as a senior the student receives $450 per semester. This money does have to be paid back; however, repayment does not begin until nine months after the student leaves school. Financial aid also makes provisions for married students, and for their children. As in the case of single students, the financial aid is based on the applicant's need. During the summer term single students are housed in dormitories and receive a $lO a week stipend. Housing and tuition costs are paid, and books are provided for the students. Married students are housed in apartments and in University family housing, where rates are relatively low.
Concentrated Services The Concentrated Services, C.S., component seeks to help those students whose problems are too complex or severe for regular counselors to handle. Regular UMAS-EOP counselors work with a group of from 15 to 20 students, and cannot give intensive help to one student at the expense of his other counselees. CS counselors, on the other hand, can devote the extra time and assistance to the student that can prove to be the difference between a drop-out and a graduate. CS counselors work closely with other staff members to determine which students are not benefiting from the classes or who are having problems of a serious nature. The CS counselor can then offer his assistance. In this way the CS component helps the severely disadvantaged succeed at the university. The primary purpose of the recreation component is twofold: to provide group activities for students such as intramural competition in basketball, baseball, etc., and to plan such events as dances and movies. The recreation coordinators make arrangements for these events and encourage student participation during both the summer and the fall. In addition, the recreation department plans intercultural athletic competition. For example, the Chicano baseball team won the University intramural competition last year. * * * Chicanos who are serious about a higher education should find UMAS-EOP supportive services very helpful in obtaining a college education. The application deadline has been extended past March I st, and there are still openings for both the summer and fall terms. Applications should be sent in as soon as possible both for admission to the University and for financial aid. Included with your application should be a copy of high school transcript or transcript from another college in the case of transfer students, GED scores and certificate, if applicable, ACT or SAT scores, plus a letter of recommendation. All applications should be marked EOP-M in a prominent position. In addition, a personal interview and visit to CU is helpful. Any questions about admissions or the program in general should be directed to Tom Trujillo, 443-221 ! ext. 7555. Students can call Tom for an appointment after March 14th and during the rest of March. Remember, financial aid applications which are not complete will be sent back to the student, so please fill out all forms completely. Also, all students who apply are considered for admission regardless of past academic performance. EOP University of Colorado Office of Admissions & Records 1 Regent Hall 125 Boulder. Colorado 80302
