Stalemate in Center strike

By Evelyn Martinez

The United Farmworkers Union (UFW) is continuing their strike in the San Luis Valley, surrounding the area of Center, Colorado, against the Mel Finerman Lettuce Company. Farmworkers walked out of the fields July 6 after monthlong negotiations with the Finerman Company to renew their UFW contract ceased. The UFW contracts with Finerman expired last month. Finerman’s representative, Jerry Goldstein, said the Finermart Company would not renew the contracts with UFW. He said the UFW caused work slow-downs in the two previous years they were under contract with the Finerman company. Goldstein said, the work slow-down cost "hundreds of thousands of dollars.” UFW sources in Center say UFW is largely responsible through their contracts and their workers for the growth of Finerman’s company into one of the largest lettuce producing companies in the nation. Picket lines have been set up in the fields and in front of the migrant labor camp, where striking farmworkers picket from early morning hours to late in the evening. Strikers have been subject to harassment by local police and other Teamster supporters. Police used tear gas in one incident to disperse a UFW picket line. Although no injuries were reported, three UFW organizers were issued summons, accused of disturbing the peace. The police accused the pickets of disturbing the peace of the camp and surrounding area by shouting obscenities in Spanish and using a bullhorn to call their workers to the fields at 3 a.m. UFW organizers dispute that claim.

According to UFW organizer Leroy Maes, the police gave little warning before spraying the tear gas into the picket line, which included children. UFW organizers are hoping the workers will listen to the urgings of the pickets and leave the Finerman Company to work for another company. Many have left Finerman Company; however, Finerman initiated a 15 per cent raise, which brought some of the workers back and is holding some of the workers to continue to stay. The wage boost amounts to approximately 8 cents a carton. Farmworkers in Center and other areas of the San Luis Valley are in extreme need of food. You can help by contributing to the Farm Labor Task Force food drive. Bring your contributions by UMC 187 and they will be delivered to needy strikers.
