76 de Septiembre en la Historia de Nuestra Gente

(Editor’s note: Throughout Aztlan, the 16th of September is being celebrated with 
various festivities and fiestas. The following is a historical account of the events leading 
to Miguel Hidalgo’s famous “grito” of liberty, and the resulting revolution that gained 
Mexico its independence from Spanish rule. It is taken from Vo Soy Joaquin by Rudolfo 
“Corky” Gonzales, the founder and director of the Denver based Crusade For Justice.) 
In 1810, Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla, a Creole who was the parish priest of Dolores (in 
west central Mexico), became the father of Mexican Independence by a simple brave 
act. Hidalgo had been meeting for some time with a small group of other intellectuals to 
discuss independence from Spain. When this secret group was discovered by the 
authorities, Hidalgo knew the time had come for action. 

On 16 September, he summoned his parishioners to the Dolores
church steps and gave his cry (grito) of liberty: “Mexicanos’ Viva Mexico! Viva 
Independence! Viva la Virgen de Guadalupe!” His followers added “Muerte a los 
gachupines!" The banner of the Virgin of Guadalupe was picked up as the flag of his 
followers. Hidalgo’s ragged followers, armed with nothing more than their banner and an 
assortment of axes, machetes, and knives, marched off the liberate their country. 
Indians and mestizos deserted haciendas and silver mines to join them as the word 
spread. Ignacio Allende (l779-1811), a Creole officer who had been part of Hidalgo's 
original conspriacy, also brought some of the colonial militia into the revolutionists’ 
ranks. The rebel forces grew to 80,000. They overran Guanajuato, Guanalajara, and 
Valladolid, and defeated a royalist force at Monte de las Ghices on 30 October, but then 
suffered defeats. Hidalgo and other leaders, fleeing toward the U.S., were betrayed, caught and shot. 
Their heads were placed on the walls of a warehouse in Guanajuato, the scene of their first victory. 
Jose Maria Morelos y Pavon, a young parish priest who was a mestizo, took over Hidalgo’s role as revolutionary leader. 
Morelos was joined by Mariano Matamores, another liberal priest. Morelos led a brilliant 
campaign in the south, capturing Orizaba, Oaxaca (1812), and Acapulco. He called 
together a congress and proclaimed a republic, proposing to divide the riches of big 
landowners and the Church between the new government and the poor, to restore lands 
to dispossessed peasants, and to abolish the special privileges of the Church and army. 
He was defeated in battle in 1813, captured, defrocked, and shot in 1815 (a year after 
Matamoros had met the same fate). But Morelos's policies formed the basis for the 
revolutionary movements that followed. Only a few leaders, notably Vicente Guerrero O 782-1831) 
and Guadalupe Victoria (17867-1843), were left to carry on the fighting. The tide turned 
when Agustin de Iturbide, the royalist colonel who had defeated Morelos, was sent by the viceroy to 
fight Guerrero. But Iturbide had begun to have his own ideas about independence, and 
instead of fighting he opened negotiations with Guerrero. With Guerrero’s and Victoria’s 
consent, Iturbide announced the Plan of Iguala, by which Mexico was to become an 
independent nation, preferably a constitutional monarchy governed by a member of the 
Spanish royal family. Other parts of the plan specified that all races were to be equal 
(opening the way for mestizos and Indians to hold office). When no Bourbon prince 
accepted the offer of the crown of Mexico, Iturbide’s soldiers proclaimed him Emperor 
Agustin I, the Plan of Iguala was scrapped, and a new form of conservative govern-
ment began. 1822-24: A liberal revolt soon began, led by Guadalupe Victoria and 
Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna (1794-1876). In 1823 Iturbide was forced to abdicate and 
go into exile; when he returned from Europe the next year, he was captured, tried 
before a court of law, and shot. A republic was set up with Victoria as its first president. 
Victoria was succeeded by Guerrero. Then personalismo (“personality cult”) replaced 
liberal ideals, as a succession of political and military leaders all sought their own ends, 
and governments rose and fell. Nothing was done to solve the country’s social 
problems. Santa Anna himself ruled Mexico eleven separate times between 1833 and 
1855, his political affiliations swinging from liberal to clerical conservative. 
During his dictatorial rule, through war and through sale, Mexico lost more than half of 
its original territory to the United States.

