Pintos ask our helpby Kathy KandaIn Colorado prisons, 43 per cent of all inmates are Chicanos. Prisoners have limited contact with the world outside the walls because visitation is restricted and all their mail, including newspapers, are censored. However, on March 10 and 1 I, Ernest and Esther Jiron had an opportunity to talk to some of the inmates: The Jirons went to Canyon City with 18 other people sponsored by the St. Thomas Aquinas Newman Center. The group visited and held Catholic mass at the Colorado State Penitentiary for men maximum and medium security and the federal and state facility for women. Concerning the large percentage of Chicano prisoners, Ernest said, "It can't be because we have more bad people in our race it’s just not true." "They the police forces concentrate on the slum areas simply because it's been said the crime rate is the highest, but it hasn't been proven. They find the crime rate higher there because if you concentrate on it, you’ll find it," Ernest said. “I feel it’s an injustice for Chicanos. They don’t have the lawyers they don't have the money to get lawyers," he said. He said one Chicano prisoner received a 10-year sentence for smoking one joint of marijuana. "He was a Vietnam veteran and couldn’t adjust to what happened to his life after spending so much time in Vietnam. He got burned. Almost half the population would be in jail if they go by that." Esther said, "What burns me up is they (society) say ’we’re not prejudiced,’ but we see it everyday. We’ve lived through it." She remembers seeing her friends arrested when they had not broken any laws.Ernest and Esther returned with some insight to the needs of the prisoners. The inmates’ ' greatest need is understanding from people on the outside, they said. “How do we get rid of people who look down on them like animals? Where do we go from here? What can be done? I’m sure everyone who goes up there asks the same questions," Ernest said. "What do you do when nobody pays attention?” Ernest and Esther said prisoners often talked about the tension that builds up inside the prisons because of isolation and loneliness. There are libraries in the prisons, but inmates said there are not many books because they get ripped-off. "Two guys I talked to would like to see more Chicano literature in prison. They have some, but they don’t have enough," Ernest said. Prisoners also complained about the lack of educational opportunities and programs in the prisons. Ernest said he would like to start a visitationgroup of Migrant Action Program (MAP) students to set up educational programs inside the walls, as well as to inform inmates of opportunities to better their education when they get out. The future of- the Newman Center visitation groups is questionable. Restrictions on what they could do in ltHe prisons have ihcreased on each of their six visits, and there were no indications from prison officials that another visit would be arranged. If the group is allowed to return, Ernest and Esther said they plan to go and they hope to have something to give the prisoners books. They have decided to collect books and to raise funds to buy books for the prisoners, especially Chicano literature. Anyone interested in donating books or helping on a fundraising committee can contact them at 447-0852.