UFW begins Safeway boycott
by John L. Espinosa
For the first time in over 16 months, Boulder supporters of the United Farm Workers Union have taken to the picket line. They are talking to people and distributing information asking them to boycott Safeway foods stores until lettuce workers get a just settlement. The secondary boycott of Safeway is in conjunction with the nation-wide lettuce boycott which is nearing its third year. The Safeway boycott was announced just before Christmas and was started simultaneously in over 40 cities on Jan. 6 of this year. In Boulder, picketers have been working for two weekends and have reported much success. Leaders of the picketers estimate they have turned 660 customers away so far. Boycott Coalition A coalition of University students and townspeople have weathered the freezing temperatures and deep snows to man the picket lines. UMAS Farm Labor Task Force and the Boulder Lettuce Boycott Committee are responsible for most of the organization. Jose Ortega and Victor Gonzales for the UMAS task force said the picketing will continue indefinitely. “We are trying to organize a daily picket line, but that takes a lot of manpower,” Gonzales said. To date the picketers have been working only on weekends. Non-violence stressed Gonzales said the picketing has been and will continue to be conducted in complete accord with UFW leader, Cesar Chavez' non-violent philosophy. "We only want to inform the consumer of the plight of the farmworkers,” he said. "When they know the facts, we are confident they will support our boycott." In Sunday's Boulder Daily Camera, Dean Howe, manager of the Arapahoe Safeway, charged picketers with slicing shopper's tires. Picketers said the charges are completely untrue. “In fact, any violence or destruction of this sort would be to the store’s advantage,” Ortega said. “If there is any trouble, the store can obtain a temporary restraining order against the picket line. That is why we avoid conflict at all costs," he said. (See related story on page 3.) It was for this reason that Boulder’s last UFW picket line had a restraining order issued against it. The picketers, mostly Chicanos, were picketing Liquor Mart for selling wines made from non-union grapes. The injunction never was enforced because the growers signed contracts the day before the court order was to go into effect.
Although Safeway spokesmen deny the boycott is having any economic effect, on several occasions they have labeled their head lettuce as being “union picked." According to Richard Longoria, director of the Denver UFW boycott committee, Safeway has not bought UFW lettuce since October of last year. The “union" lettuce they sell is Teamsters' Union lettuce, and that is as scab as nonunion lettuce. On Dec. 29, 1972, the California Supreme Court ruled that Teamsters do not represent farmworkers. The court said that the conflict was not a jurisdictional dispute between the two unions (which is what Safeway claims). Farmworkers Coerced The high court said that the lettuce growers and the Teamsters together “coerced and harassed farmworkers into joining Teamsters." They said that the Jurisdictional Strike Act should not have been used to break the original UFW lettuce strike the act was misused in favor of the Teamsters. “Although the act was generally intended to protect an employer caught between the conflicting demands of two competing unions, the legislature was aware of the danger that an employer might attempt to convert the act from a defensive shield against improper union rivalry into an affirmative weapon which would be utilized selectively to eliminate to less favored or more feared of the two competing unions,” the court said. Teamsters’ Contracts Last week the Teamsters announced they had renegotiated farmworkers contracts with lettuce growers. The new contracts include many of the provisions the UFW contracts call for, but according to UFW spokesmen, the contracts are not protecting Farmworkers. “It is unheard of for a union to renegotiate a contract in the middle of the term," Ortega said. The new contracts do not provide for union hiring halls and the Teamsters’ dues are approximately three times higher than UFW dues. The Teamster announcement said that the contracts protected farmworkers in 13 states including Colorado. UFW people say-Fthis is entirely false, the Teamsters do not have farmworker contracts in Colorado, or most of the other states listed. The UFW was recently successful in obtaining contracts with Minute Maid, a subsidiary of Coca Cola. The contracts protect approximately 150,000 citrus workers in Florida.
Photo by John L. Espinosa
