Tragedy is no stranger to our struggle!Ricardo Falcon On August 30, 1972, Ricardo Falcon and friends left Fort Lupton, Colorado to journey the El Paso, Tejas, where they were to attend the first La Raza Unida National Convention. Ricardo did not complete this historic journey, he was felled by racist bullets fired by Perry Brunson in Orogande, New Mexico. Falcon, the former UMAS-EOP assistant director who was fired by the University in the Spring of 1972, died at the hands of Brunson after they argued over water Falcon’s party needed to cool a leaking radiator. The argument began over water, but Brunson insulted Falcon’s raza like the man he was, Falcon defended his people like the coward he is, Brunson drew a gun and shot the unarmed Falcon. On December 6, 1972, Brunson was acquited of manslaughter charges stemming from the shooting. Once again the killing of our raza was termed “justifiable” in the courts. The verdict did not come as a surprise to the friends of Falcon who marched from Orogrande to Alamogordo where the trial was held. Throughout the trial, it was the Chicanos who were treated as if it were they who were on trial. Falcon had many friends in the movement. More than 1200 persons attended his funeral in Fort Lupton. The Brown Berets and friends carried his casket two miles to its burial place. Falcon will long be remembered, for his spirit lives on in all Chicanos who fight to bring justice totheir people. His contributions to UMAS, La Raza Unida and the United Farm Workers will not be in vain. The movement has lost a strong young leader, but from his example we will mold many more. Two days after the shooting, Pricilla Falcon, his wife, asked, “How am I going to tell my son his father was killed over water.” It was the white raciet who killed for water, but Falcon died for his people. Brian Sanchez On September 2, 1972 Brian Sanchez, a Migrant Action Program student at the University, was charged with three counts of assaulting a federal officer. On Novermber 8, 1972 he was found guilty of two counts and sentenced to three years in federal prison. Sanchez, who is well known throughout the state as one of the organizers of El Teatro de Ustedes of Boulder,was charged following an incident on the American side of the bridge from Juarez, Mexico. He and ten others were crossing back into the United States after spending the evening in Juarez. At the bridge, Gene R. Barth stopped the party and asked them questions about their citizenship. One member of the party had not crossed the border before and was confused; Sanchez told him how to answer. The immigration official interpreted this as an attempt on Sanchez’ part to interfere with the questioning. Barth told Sanchez to "Step to the back of the building, boy!”Before he could respond, he was physically forced to the rear of the building by Barth. Another officer, James B. Stewart, joined Barth at this time and while Barth held him, Stewart beat Sanchez on the side of the head. The men in Sanchez' party broke up the clash, and then they all were permitted to leave. Outside of the building, Sanchez and Jose Calderon decided to talk to the officers’ superiors and file a complaint against them for beating Sanchez. They were not permitted to file a complaint and were informed that the officers where charging Sanchez with assault, instead. At the political trial which followed, it was brought out that the border officials were warned of La Raza Unida activists. Sanchez was tried for his beliefs as a supporter of La Raza Unida and a Chicano. When Calderon persisted in filing a complaint with the FBI. It was he they investigated instead. He was fired from his job at Aims College in Greeley when they learned he was under investigation. Anyone wishing to know more details of this case is urged to write to El Diario offices. Also friends of Sanchez can write him at: Brian Paul Sanchez, Box 1000, No. 84958, Anthony, New Mexico-Tejas, 88021. Crusade for Justice On March 17, 1973, what has become known at the St. Patrick’s Day Massacre took place at the Crusade for Justice in Denver. The assault left Luis "Junior” Martinez dead and 19 injured. Police arrested 36 persons but released all but three without charges. Those who were most severely beaten by police were charged with the most serious crimes. They include Luis Rameriz, Mario Vasquez and Ernesto Vigil, who were all severely injured and are now charged with felony crimes. The incident began when an unidentified man walked across the street to ask Patrolman Stephen Snyder and Patrolwoman Carol Hogue why they were parked across from the Crusade for Justice and the adjoining apartment building owned by the Crusade’s free school, Escuela Tlatelolco. Snyder and Hogue attempted to arrest the young man for "jaywalking" and Snyder chased him in the alley when he fled. Hogue called on the car radio for assistance and before 45 seconds had passed, “there were police everywhere,” Ernesto Vigil said later. When the incident was over, Martinez was dead, the apartment building was heavily damaged by an explosion from an unknown source and police were being praised for exercising “restraint.” Since the shoot-out, the Chicanos have been tried in the local newspapers and found guilty. Although police have not determined the cause of the explosion which damaged the building, they called in wrecking crews to destroy the evidence before an independent investigation could be made. First reports have said that more than 100-200 weapons were found, but that number has since dwindle to less than 30. Since the shoot-out the local media has attempted to discredit Luis Martinez and the Crusade. The truth is, Martinez was a poet and artist loved by his people. The Denver police have assumed the right to come into the Chicano community and murder, beat and harrass Chicanos at will. -

Ironically, the policeman who shot Luis Martinez was awarded a medal for heroism by the Denver Chamber of Commerce. The Rockv Mountain News, which had earlier absolved the Denver police department of any guilt in the Crusade massacre, ran a story about Patrolman Stephen H. Synder’s medal for heroism, but the story ommitted the fact that Synder killed Luis. The Denver Chicano Liberation Defense Committee hae been established to aid the defendants in their fight for justice. The committee has received support from such nationally known figures as Angela Davis and Los Tres de la Raza. Questions or donations can be directed to the Denver Chicano Liberation Defense Committee, P.O. Box 1 8347, 1567 Downing Street, Denver, Colorado, 80218. Fort Lupton bombing Anselmo Peralta and Raymund Roybal were each given one year probation after entering a plea of “Nolo Contendere” (no contest) to the charge of accessory after the fact in the Fort Lupton Bombing case. The ''ase stems from an incident on March v, when an unknown person or persons deposited a charge ofdynamite in the unmanned Fort Lupton Police Station. The defendants, both former UMAS students, were facing 28 years imprisonment if convicted on the felony charges. They entered the plea of no contest to the misdemeanor charge after they had been threatened with perjury charges. The prosecution was prepared to come forward with at least five professional witnesses who would testify the pair had perjured themselves. Experience has shown that the work of a Chicano does not weigh heavily in the courts when compared to the word of professional liars. The only fair trial would have been no trial at all. fortunately these two dedicated Chicano activisits were saved from becoming the scapegoats of the Weld County racists. It does not surprise us that the District Attorney Don Miller reduced the charges after he had gotten as much mileage out of the publicity as possible. It is interesting that before the bombing Ricardo Falcon, then a UMAS student, exposed the Fort Lupton police for racist actions. He found that from June 1968 to April 1970, the Fort Lupton police had made 468 arrests. Of this total, 327 were arrests of Chicanos, although Chicanos comprise only 25 per cent of the city s population.