MACHO serves ex-PintosMexican -American -Correct ion al -He Ip Organization (MACHO) is an organization geared to helping exoffenders. MACHO is also interested in penal reform, and in bringing about constructive change in the Juvenile Court system in the state of Colorado. MACHO is also involved in the Civil and Human Rights of exoffenders. The current coordinator of MACHO is a board member of the Human Rights Commission of the University of Colorado, Boulder campus. MACHO is also actively involved in providing student entertainment for any of the correctional facilities in the state of Colorado, giving priority to the men and women’s penitentiary in Canon City, and the state reformatory at Buena Vista. In the area of guidance, MACHO, an understaffed, underfunded organization is in the process of setting up a counseling component in which all counselors and staff members will be consisted of ex-offenders of all nationalities, creeds, race, or color. This is based on the precept that people that can identify with one another can understand and help one another far more effectively and constructively. In the area of placement, MACHO is actively involved in the recruitment of ex-offenders for the summer E.O.P. program. Regents made a committment to MACHO last year when the Board said that —1 I % of all EOP monies or slots (grants) would be used for ex-offenders, interested in obtaining a career in the field of higher education. In the area of treatment there are some feasible aspects and solutions to develop and consider in any institution of higher education. One is in the utilization of the various departments of the University. For example, MACHO is working on developing a system of interagency coordination with all correctional and rehabilitative agencies, organizations, institutions, and the like. An effort is being made to coordinate the graduate and undergraduate students in the area of Law, Psychology, Psychiatry, Psychological, Sociology, Medicine, Business, etc. MACHO is also interested in thearea of developing services for students involved in drug abuse. A very serious problem effecting everyone and a number one contributor to the rising cost of crime. MACHO will hopefully be able to utilize research teams that will go into the Courts to observe cases, convicting, and sentencing in each court system. The data collected will be used to identify some of the major problems faced by the offenders and the legal system.As for future planning MACHO is seeking viable avenues for securing academic credits for students interested in the field of corrections and criminology research, especially, institutional reasearch, eg. a) Challenging current policies b) Proposing programs c) with civic and community groups d) Encouraging the development of comparable programs at other Universities.