Plans set for Boulder Cinco de Mayoby Sonny MontoyaTentative plans are now being made for the Cinco de Mayo celebration for the CU Boulder campus. Committee chairman Sylvia Manzanares has put together an interesting array of entertainment and speakers. The festivities go as follows: Wednesday Wednesday, May second, will start off the festivities with music and song supplied by Los Cuartros Amigos, accompanied by the Hermanos Cordova, in the New Deli at the UMC at 6:30 p.m. Thursday Thursday, May third, activities will start with a foosball tournament in the games room at the UMC from 9:30 to 11:00 followed by a Mariachi Mass at 11:00 in the middle ballroom, UMC. Next, Brown Sugar, a local Denver band, will give a concert from 12-1:30 after the Mariachi Mass in the ballroom. Also, from 12-2:00, a luncheon at the New Deli is scheduled with Los Alvarados supplying the music. At 2:00, in the forum room, speakers Russ Vigil and Jose Perez will give talks on subjects ranging from Chicano liberation to ediucation in the East. Russ Vigil, a law student at Harvard University, will speak on topics concerning Chicanos and the law and end his duscussions with “Education in the East, one Chicano’s perspective”. Jose Perez, a native of Cuba, is a member of the staff of the Young Socialist. He has participated in many important Chicano and Latino conferences, and was a member of the steering committee of the Oakland Raza Unida party. Perez will be speaking on Chicano Liberation from the Socialist viewpoint. From 4-7:00, the UMAS Dancers will perform in the New Deli where Mexican food will be served. The Cinco de Mayo committee has also arranged for booths to be set up in the loggia area in the UMC. Ojos de dias, headbands, chokers, rings, etc. will be sold and general information about the festivities can also be obtained there. The booths will be open all day and artwork will be displayed also in the Alumni Hall, Gallery 2 in the UMC.Professor Alurista, from California State University in San Diego, will speak in Ram ley 104 from 7:30-9:00. Alurista has been a professor at the University since 1968 and was the founder of the Chicano studies program at that university. He has written two books of poetry, Floricanto en Aztlan and Nationchild Plumaroja. Professor Alurista is now involved with the Centro Cultural de La Raza in San Diego which is a union of Chicano artists and the media. He will be speaking on National Chicano Liberation followed by selected poems from his books. Professor Alurista’s poetry can be set to many moods of La Raza, such as his “Because La Raza is Tired.” Topping off Thursday’s events will be a movie in the University Theater from 10-12:00 p.m. Friday Friday, May fourth, events will open with another luncheon at the New Deli from 12-2:00 with Los Alvarados and the UMAS Dancers providing the music and dance entertainment. Mexican food will be served at the Deli. As of yet, no speakers have been confirmed for the Friday, May Fourth, celebration, but information concerning who will speak can be found in the Colorado Daily. Tentative plans for a dinner in either the Ballroom or the grill are inThe dinner will start at 6:30 but admission is still undecided. This years’ Cinco de Mayo is hoped to be as successful as the Fiesta De La Gente celebrations held last semester. Hundreds of people turned out and had a very good time. We urge everyone interested to participate in the music, dance, food and song provided for the 1973 Cinco de Mayo celebration.Cinco de Mayo parade drew thousands at Pueblo celebration.? Young Macho gets finar I inspection at Cinco de Mayo I celebration in Pueblo.