Myers’ strikers ask support
Wednesday, Feb. 21st, the workers at Myers and Co. in Boulder went out on strike. These people, members of Pressmen’s Local No. 40, operate the machines which print the labels and cartons for Coors Beer. They are now engaged in a struggle with the owners and management of Myers and Co. The workers must win this battle! Myers and Co. is a printing outfit located at 37th and Walnut, whose sole client is the Adolf Coors Brewing Corp. The plant facilities are rented by Coors, the machines are owned by Coors, the inventory belongs to Coors, and previously the workers' souls have belonged to Coors. In point of fact, Myers and Co. is simply another cog in the Coors — mi 7 King, In November of 1972 the workers at Myers organized a union. Their aim in organizing was to create an organization —a union which would represent the interests of the workers. They could then collectively bargain with the management of Myers. .The issues centered around very basic things, an increase in wages and better working conditions. Throughout the course of the negotiaions between the Union and the management, the latter was consistently unwilling to respond to the workers needs. The final answer of Myers was itself a sign of their inflexibility and unfairness. They offered a 50 cent per hour pay cut and this is Myers idea of negotiating with the workers. In addition to this, Myers refused to deal with the union any further. To impress the Myers-Coors machine with the seriousness of their refusal to negotiate with the employees’ just demands, the workers fell back on the last legal tactic of the union. They chose to strike! They had intended to hold a strike vote on Sat., Feb. 24th. But on Wed., Feb. 21st, the owners fired 35 of the 80 employees. Myers claimed they fired these 35 men and women because of long hair. However, the real reason is that the owners are trying to smash the union and intimidate the remaining employees. Some thirty other workers, in a move to convince the management that the Union represented all the employees, refused to cross the picket lines established by the fired Union members. These men and women who refused to cross the picket lines have sacrificed their jobs. At this time, the struggle is continuing. The Striking Workers of Pressmen's Local No. 40
