One Year in UMAS Historyby Paul MoraThe United Mexican-American Students organization at the University of Colorado has undergone a number of changes during the past year. One year ago, during May of 1972, both the organization and UMAS-EOP were under attack from university administrators, an attack from which Chicanos on campus have not yet recovered. The attack began with the suspension of Ricardo Falcon, UMAS-EOP assistant director, for allegedly threatening an UMAS student and for ‘poor conduct in general.’ The attack grew to encompass a wide range of charges against UMAS-EOP for alleged poor operations in the program. The Falcon suspension was reviewed by the Human Rights Commission at the University, and the Commission said that Falcon was unjustifiably suspended. University administrators ignored the Commission and ordered Pat Vigil, UMAS-EOP director, to fire Falcon. Vigil said that he would not fire Falcon, since no charges had been substantiated against Falcon. Vigil cited the Commission’s report and said the student Falcon allegedly threatened had denied Falcon had ever threatened him. The University then issued an ultimatum: either Vigil would fire Falcon, or the university would fire both of them. Vigil remained steadfast, and the university then fired both Falcon and Vigil, and obtained a court order which prohibited the two administrators from setting foot on campus for one year. The UMAS organization was in the forefront of the efforts to support Falcon and Vigil. On several occasions the UMAS students marched en masse inprotest of university actions. University administrators then expelled a number of students who were actively involved in the UMAS organization, including UMAS president Florencio ‘Freddy’ Granado. With the elimination of so many UMAS-EOP staff and students, the program was left leaderless. The university administrators then agreed to allow Joe Franco, who had formerly been the counseling coordinators, to become interim director. After a somewhat turbulent summer program, Franco was appointed director of the program, the position he now holds. With the wholesale expulsion of UMAS organization leaders and UMAS-EOP staff, the UMAS organization was inactive until about mid-point of the fall semester, when the Fiesta de la Gente celebration was held. Members of the UMAS organization planned and carried out the Fiesta, which involved all segments of the University community in a celebration of our Chicano heritage. Mexican dances, banquets with Chicano food, Spanish-language films and other activities made the Fiesta a very successful project. Along about November a change in the UMAS organization was proposed, a new UMAS, designed more along the lines of a corporation than the old UMAS organization. The new UMAS leaders would be the chairmen of various committees, such as the Farm Labor Task Force, UMAS publications, etc. Each would have a vote in important decisions to be made in regard to UMAS students. The new plan was designed to overcome one weakness in the old organization, the fact that a president, vice president, and second V.P. could be removed too easily, leaving the organization leaderless. With a Board of Directors each having one vote and equal power, even the expulsion of several committee chairmen would not leave the organization leaderless. UMAS members voted to accept the new plans, and so a new chapter was added to the history of Chicano student organizations. A very noticeable change in both UMAS-EOP and the UMAS organization has been the absence of confrontations between Chicanos and the University administration. Part of this change can be attributed to the general apathetic mood of college students across the nation, and part of the change can be called a new tactical strategy. UMAS Chicanos now occupy varying positions in the CU student government and have worked from these positions to enact change for the benefit of Chicanos. (see related story.) The central theme for UMAS organizational activities is community awareness and understanding of La Raza, with a stress on Chicano involvement in the farmworkers struggle and other movement-related activities. For a year now the UMAS organization has been rebuilding and expanding to reassume its place as the leading Chicano student organization in the state. With the admittance of an expected 350 students this summer and perhaps 50 more in the fall, UMAS will become even more able to help La Raza achieve educational equality.