6-month review
Chicano Senators’ progress noted
October 29, 1972, marked the first time a group of Chicanos were elected to the Associated Students of the University of Colorado senate. During the past four months Senators Daniel Gomez, Neva Romero, David Madrid, David Garcia and Joseph Martinez have worked with legislation concerning minorities and general social issues. The Chicano Senators started by drafting a resolution asking for senate endorsement of the lettuce boycott. The resolution passed and a committee was established to mobilize the lettuce boycott on campus. According to the Chicano senators, the boycott is high on their priority list and they will work hard to make it work on campus. The senators also contributed to the Fiesta de la Gente celebration. They worked hard to obtain financial support for the event. The senators agreed that the celebration was a success and congratulated UMAS for a job well done. An ASUC resolution supporting the Colorado Vietnam Veterans received approval from all Chicano senators. The veterans requested that the Colorado State legislature approve a bill waiving college tuition for Colorado Vietnam veterans. If an in-state Chicano Vietnam veteran enters UMAS-EOP when the bill is state law, he will receive free tuition. Therefore the money that UMAS-EOP would have used to pay the veteran’s tuition will fund an additional Chicano. So actually UMAS-EOP will get two Chicanos for the price of one. The senators have also given backing to other issues related to Chicanos. When Black students were killed by police of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Senator Garcia drafted a resolution asking the ASUC senate to send a letter to the Louisiana Governor condemning the racist act. Bills supporting equal opportunity hiring of campus personnel as outlined by HEW, and better job guidelines for student employees were concerns of the new senators. Nationwide news was made by Senator Gomez following his attempt to impeach controversial student body president Peter Solomon. However, the impeachment proceedings were halted due to lack of support. Solomon was not the last ultra-conservative to feel pressure from the Chicano advocates. The senators drove for the recall of all student members on the Cultural Events Board. The Chicano senators felt these students showed poor response to minorities on campus. Chicano senators were also involved with the resignation of right-wing Senator Dennis Mateski. Bills submitted by ultra-conservative senators demanding that all UMAS meetings be open to the general public also were stopped by the Chicano politicians. The senators fought the bills because they believe the UMAS meetings are for family only.
Again, the factor that influenced the ASUC senate to appoint minorities to joint boards was Chicano senators. There are now two Chicanos sitting on the UMC board, and one is the acting chairman. One Chicano is sitting on the finance board and another is an exofficio to the same board. Four more ex-officio positions on different boards are held by four Chicano senators. Andy Singleton of the Black Student Alliance, the newly elected Budget Commissioner, received strong backing from the Chicano senators. This is the first time in the ASUC joint board history that a meaningful number of minorities are active participants on the boards. Furthermore, the fact that there is a second paper active on the campus, “El Diario de la Gente" was also mentioned to the ASUC senate by the Chicano senators. Since the ASUC senate became aware of “El Diario de la Gente” the paper has sold a substantial amount of advertising to the different groups associated with the senate. The senators devote twenty to thirty hours a week preparing for the Tuesday night senate meetings. The senator spends most of his time researching upcoming senate resolutions and contacting people directly or indirectly involved with the new resolutions. The senator will also spend some hours preparing his own senate resolutions. The Chicano ASUC senators act as links of communication between UMAS and the University of Colorado student government.
The Chicano senators urge all Chicanos to vote for Jess Vigil, Ben Romero, Jim Sandoval and the other New Directions Coalition candidates during the final elections March six and seven.
