Avalos fund establishedSam Avalos, an UMAS student and English teaching assistant for UMAS-EOP, was severely injured in an automobile accident near Gallup, New Mexico. Doctors are now attempting to determine the extent of Sams injuries. He is unable to feel anything in his legs, but specialists at the Craig Medical Center in Denver are working with Sam in hopes that he will walk again. Sam was driving a latemodel truck when it left the road and rolled three times. Two other passengers, Dave Cator and Joe Matthews, sustained minor injuries during the accident. Sam was first taken to a hospital in Gallup, and on April 2 he was flown from Gallup to the Craig Medical Center, where he is now undergoing treatment. Contacted by phone late last week, Sam said he was slowly regaining some feeling below his waist, but that it’s "too early to tell how bad I’m hurt.” Doctors have told him that he will be in traction for about five weeks. Probably the most difficult problem Sam is facing is the large expense involved in his treatment. The problem was compounded when, according to Nick Avalos, Sam's brother, "we found out that Sam’s Blue CrossBlue Shield coverage expired a few months ago when he turned 19. and the company didn’t notify us.”Nick said a BCBS representative told the family that the expiration date was "in the contract” and BC/BS will not help with any expenses. Nick noted that the contract had been signed years ago, and the family had steadily paid for the insurance. Sam was covered by university BCBS, but the coverage is very limited. Nick said that total medical expenses might run as high as "$30,000 to $40,000." El Diario has established a bank account for student contributions which will help defray some of Sam's medicalcosts. In addition, several students have formed a committee to plan fundraising events to help Sam out. The Sam Avalos fund was opened at the Coronado National Bank in Denver, one of the few totally Chicano owned banks in the nation. Contributions can be sent to The Coronado National Bank  Also, your ideas about fund raising events are very welcome. Call or come to UMC 416 and talk to Paul Mora, committee chairman.