Get off your ass!

Two articles in this edition of El Diario came as a result of minor skirmishes between the city of Boulder government and local Chicanos. One article deals with the city response, or lack of response, to charges of police harassment of Chicanos, while another article details the complete failure of the city’s 'affirmative action’ hiring plan. These articles barely scratch the surface of the widespread discrimination present in Boulder against all minority-group peoples. In the absence of any organized, efficient effort to rectify the situation, the city of Boulder clings to its "country club” pattern of a white, upper-class community. The Boulder Police Force is representative of the entire city administration. In February the city council appropriated $156,000 for a concentrated attack on the city’s high crime rate, with the bulk of the money for use as salaries for more police officers. These officers flooded the University Hill district, the student ghetto, and stepped over themselves in trying to stop crime. Coincidental to the police assault was the proposed purchase by Chicanos of the Colonial and Colony Houses on the hill. It was inevitable that Chicanos should come into contact with the police, but probably avoidable when the police reflected their lack of training, disregard for human rights, and racial prejudice by harassing and provoking the Chicanos. City council, which sets policy and has much say-so over the direction of the city government, failed to set aside even a nickel of the $156,000 for police training for contact with minorities. One direct result of police ignorance, and out of ignorance, fear, was an action by a detective who was prepared to shoot Chicanos whom he apparently had stereotyped as troublemakers. Future articles in El Diario will deal with other examples of the city’s overtly racist actions, including more examples of white-oriented hiring, establishment of token programs and commissions (the old Boulder Human Relations Commission was dissolved when it became involved with human problems instead of tokenism), and the Chicanos partly responsible for the lack of real minority progress in Boulder. What can you do? First off, get off your ass and get involved! Attend UMAS meetings and listen to both the problems and solutions being discussed. Work with the Board of Directors, the ASUC Chicanos, and work on your own against racism. A four or five year stay at the university should not be a vacation, but instead should be a training period where we learn the tactics needed to fight those who have shit on our parents, grandparents, and familia. We can put our knowledge to use now by defeating the Boulder racists, if you'll only get involved.
