Imported Teamster goons injure 90 UFW workers

(Editor’s note: John Espinosa has been working with the United Farm Workers Union during the summer semester, primarily on the UFW’s offcial newspaper, El Macriado. The following article was first published in El Macriado.) by John L. Espinosa 

Lamont, California More than 40 Teamster goons recently imported from the Coachella Valley attacked a Union picket line of nearly 200 persons at a Kovacavich Ranch near here June 28. The goons, armed with pipes, grape stakes, chains, brass knuckles and clubs, waded into the group which had been peacefully picketing the ranch. The attack resulted in injuries to 90 pickets and .the hospitalization of four more. One person, Juan Hernandez, 60, was clubbed and suffered serious head injuries. Thirty Teamsters were arrested. The bloody attack came only one day after Teamster officials in the Coachella Valley announced announced they were sending 50 goons into the San Joaquin Valley to bolster their forces. The terror tactics of the goons in the Coachella area have been severely hampered by a court injunction, and they are being sent north where they can act more freely The goons were imported only two days after a committee from the Community Relations Conference of Southern California left the valley after being called in by Union Director Cesar Chavez to investigate the Teamster violence. “This violence is being turned on and off like water.” Jerry Cohen, UFW attorney said. It is believed the goons are being paid a bonus if they hurt someone and a double bonus if they hurt a leader.

Witnesses at the picket line said the Teamsters arrived in a caravan of several cars and a white flatbed truck. They got out of their cars and attacked the pickets. Mario Macias, a Teamster organizer who was already at the scene when the goons came, pointed out pickets and then the goons would single out the victim and beat him, witnesses said. As the goons charged into the pickets, picket captain Alfredo Castro yelled for everyone to get out of their way. He said later he was worried because there was a large number of women and children on the line. Juan Hernandez and others moved toward a sheriff’s car for protection, but even though a deputy Sheriff was sitting in the car, the goons hit Hernandez with a club., When he went down, several others joined in and were kicking and hitting him about the head. The officer in the car did nothing to stop them, witnesses said. "I saw blood come from him and make a pool in the street,” striker Angrea Mancha said later about Hernandez. Although no shooting was reported witnesses said they saw a black man with a gun in his belt. Another said he was chased by a man who had a gun sticking out of his boot. Salvador Monarrez, Jr., 15, said he was running with his family when his father slowed down to help his mother. “Two of them (goons) grabbed him from behind and one of them punched him in the head,” he said. “My father fell to the ground and a second Teamster started to hit him with a pole.” Young Salvador ran to help his father and he was struck by the pole and then the Teamsters ran to beat more people, he said. The goons smashed windows of cars in which some people had taken cover. A car owned by Rolando Trevino had external speakers and a windshield smashed by a Teamster with a club. Kovacavich’s chief supervisor Marty Bozina was at the scene of the attack. Frank Bacus, one of the pickets, asked him if he condoned the Teamster violence and Bozina said, “It’s all your fault, if you didn’t have a picketline this never would have happened.” Frank’s brother, Larry Bacus said Bozina was standing right next to Mario Macias when he said “You guys asked for this” and then pointed he and his brother out to some goons. Sheriff Charles Dodge who was on the scene reported 14 deputies and three California Highway Patrol units were used to restore order. The Teamsters weie escorted to their cars and taken in a caravan to the county jail in Bakersfield where they were booked on charges of assault with deadly weapons, assault and battery, and disturbing the peace. Two Delano Private Patrol guards, who were on the scene, did nothing to stop the Teamster attack, even though they were armed, witnesses said. One witness said the private guards ran into a nearby vineyard. After the attack, Pablo Espinoza, director of the Lamont UFW Field Office, pulled in all picket lines in the area. “We are pulling them off until we are assured no one will get killed,” he said. That afternoon, about 600 strikers demonstrated outside the Sheriffs Civic Center facility in Bakersfield. The pickets were told they would have more officers on the picket lines the next day. Since the attack, there have been no major incidents on the picket