Chicanos run for BoardThe May 1 Boulder Valley School District Board elections are rapidly approaching and Richard Garcia and Peter Garcia, the only Chicano candidates, have their campaigns in full swing. Both candidates are depending on a large Chicano turnout at the polls. There are approximately 500 Chicanos eligible to vote in this election on the University campus. They are also concentrating on the small towns surrounding Boulder where there is a high Chicano population ratio. Richard Garcia said he feels the real issue in the election is the need for programs to help the disadvantaged student to adjust in the school system. He is a strong supporter of bilingual and bicultural programs. These are a necessity for the survival of the Chicanito in the schools he said. Garcia told El Diario of an incident at a meeting of the Morning Forum of Republican Women and the candidates held recently. Helga Konecy, a candidate from district A, told the audience she felt it was the responsibility of the parents to prepare the children for the school system. She was critical of the “special interest” groups which were making demands on the school system. Garcia followed her talk by speaking in Spanish. He said he wanted to reverse the situation and show her how many Chicanitos feel. Richard is running a campaign directed to the needs of the minority students. His platform includes: implementation of bilingual education, waiving of fees for low-income students, and implementation of “Parents Rights.” Peter Garcia, a candidate from district F, is running on a broader platform. “Some people think a Chicano would be one issue oriented, but that is very wrong," he said. As a taxpayer, he said, he is concerned with giving the taxpayer a break. He is in favor of restricting growth in order to prevent crowding of the schools. He is also greatly concerned with the "pushout” rate. He cited Centarus High School in which 127 Chicanos were enrolled last fall “There are 93 left" he said. There are a number of other areas Peter feels need to be looked into. These include the high turnover rate of service employees, and the administration. Under service employees, many of which are Chicanos, Peter favors pay increases. “It is a shame when these people have to come to me and ask for assistance with food stamps," he said. Both candidates stressed the need for a commitment from the Chicano community. “We need their help at the polls."