Cinco de Mayo granted $3290Plans for the Boulder celebration of the Cinco De Mayo are going ahead after the Cultural Events Board appropriated $3290 for the event. According to Sylvia Manzan ares, Cinco De Mayo committee chairman, the CEB first considered the original request for $6OOO, but cut the budget to $3290 for several reasons. The first reason was a lack of sufficient funds, since the C.E.B. simply did not have the money. Another reason is because they felt there should be an equal distribution of the CEB money. ÒThe original plans have to be rearranged, but at least we got this much,Ó Manzanares said.The festivities will take place on May 3 and 4 with guest speakers professor Alurista of California State University in San Diego and Russ Vigil of Harvard University to name but a few. El Cinco De Mayo is the most important civil celebration in Mexico. It commemorates the victory achieved in the battle of Puebla in 1861 over the then most powerful army in the world. The Mexican troops, under the command of General Ignacio Zaragosa, were outnumbered by the better equipped and trained French army. It was through their desire and knowledge of the terrain that the small Mexican army was able to defeat the French.The rejoicing in the capitol and all over the nation was very great, and the building of a nation began. This event is much celebrated by Chicanos throughout Mexico and the southwest because of its significance to the Chicano. The proposed celebration is designed to involve the entire university and local community. It is our desire to create a stronger unity among all cultures by gathering together to talk, to sing, to dance, to play and to share our Cinco De Mayo celebration with everyone. We will celebrate by providing entertainment, activities and various expressions of our life and culture.Last week the Packer Grill displayed the UFW union symbol to indicate they had farmworker lettuce in stock. The ASUC boycott committee is negotiating with University officials to have head lettuce banned from campus for the remainder of the Lettuce boycott. A breakthrough is expected soon.