Help the Farmworkers!

The lettuce and Safeway boycotts, led by Cesar Chavez of the United Farmworkers Union (UFW), is in its third year with no end in sight. The UFW has received much opposition from the teamsters and growers who are working jointly against any substantial gains for the farmworkers. The living and working conditions of the farmworkers have been kept secret from the American people until recently. One major reason for this ignorance is that the farmworkers are considered second class citizens and the white middle class silent majority is not concerned about the plight of the farmworkers. The basic issues involved in the farmworkers struggle should be reviewed. The UFWU is only asking for fair wages, decent housing, retirement and medical benefits, stop the use of lethal pesticides and the end of child labor. Farmworkers are among the lowest paid laborers in the nation. The average yearly income for a family of four farmworkers is only $2700 per year, and children often have to work to keep the family fed. Lethal pesticides kill 800 farmworkers each year and 80-90,000 workers are injured each year by pesticides. Over 90 per cent of the grower-supplied housing does not have a toilet, bath or sink. The Union is also asking for such basic needs as toilets in the fields. What can we do while here at the University? First of all, the local lettuce and Safeway boycotts are in need of reinforcements. Picket lines were set up earlier in the year and currently are operated on Saturdays by UMAS and Farm Labor Task Force at Safeway. Friday evenings the New American Movement has consistently picketed at Safeway in Arapahoe Village. Even though the Safeway boycott and picket has only been done on weekends the local Safeway store on Arapahoe has cut its staff by approximately half due to the boycott. In effect, the boycott and picket line have been very effective since it is obvious that Safeway cannot continue at its present level. The task is almost completed here in Boulder, but the boycott and picket line need your support in order to finish the job. El Diario urges you to volunteer two hours of your time to the picket line at Safeway. Only through a united effort can we gain any justice for the farmworkers. Only by giving of ourselves can we find the true meaning of life.

