History of Cinco de MayoOn the Nebraska Chicano Awareness Center’s Calendario De La Raza, May sth is described as follows: “Commemoration of the Battle of Puebla. Defeat of the French in Mexico.” Unfortunately, most Chicanos in the United States are not aware of the historical significance of 'EI cinco de Mayo. ’ Moreover, those who are aware have limited knowledge of the events that led to the “Battle of Puebla.” Hopefully, this article will provoke the student toward further research on this important historical date on the people of my cultural heritage. The Mexican Constitution of 1857 was the exact expression of the aspirations of the Mexican people as distinguished from the Roman Church, army and aristocracy. Forty-seven years was this constitution in the making forty seven years of such national travail as no modern people in the western hemisphere had endured; and for fifty-seven years thereafter the Mexican people fought against foes within, and the power of the civilized world without, to make it a reality in the land and they are fighting yet. It was no Magna Charta framed by medieval barons, no French Civil Code framed by bourgeois propertied, no constitution framed by land speculators and capitalists for their own immediate profit. In many respects it has no parallel in western hemisphere history, no kindred human document with which it may be compared, because it is the first constitution of the people, the first expression of a pure democracy as opposed to a bogus democracy, the first national enunciation of the principle that the foundation of all social institutions is the rights of man as directly and unalterably opposed to the Rights of Property. If one could ask any Mexican, be he peaceful peon tilling the fields, or skilled mechanic in the shop, or student in the schools, or miner toiling in noisome depths or patriot with rifle at back for the fatherland and liberty what is the deepest desire of his heart his answer would be, “The constitution of 1857.” The contents, in brief, of the first four articles of the constitution were as cited:Article I “The Mexican people recognize that the rights of men are the foundations and the purpose of social institutions. In consequence they proclaim that all laws and authorities of the country must respect and sustain the warranties stipulated by this constitution." From the day that this article of the constitution became effective, all economic, political, and religious institutions in Mexico had to be based upon, and conform to, the principle of the rights of men. Article II "In the Republic everyone is born free. The slaves who step into the national territory recover their liberty by this mere fact, and have the right of the protection of the law.” Prior to the implementation of this constitution; in Mexico the serfs were still to a large extent considered as attached to the land. If an estate changed hands the serfs went with it as part of the equipment. This article was intended to destroy forever any restraint upon the freedom of men. In later articles of the constitution one can witness the extension and elaboration of their basic principle to encompass the most complete freedom of the human family. The second part of the article recalls to us the fact that this constitution was framed at a time when the institution of slavery was still in power in the United States. The fugitive slave was a common figure in Mexico, and the constitution not only granted him the full right of asylum, but declared that from the moment his foot touched Mexican soil he recovered his freedom, thereby recognizing that he was born a free man. Article 111 "All education is free.” This fundamental principle was later amplified to make education universal, free, non-sectarian and compulsory. The Catholic schools of Mexico were sorry institutions, and even such rudimentary education was restricted to the rich. For the poor there was nothing but the most complete illiteracy. Article IV “Every man is free to adopt the profession, trade, or work that suits him, it being useful and honest; and toenjoy the product thereof...” To toil in peonage on the land of the Church or aristocracy was the common people’s only desitny. This article, which gave them the right to choose their employment without restraint, ipso facto , broke the bonds of peonage, and it did more: it recognized the right of the people to the enjoyment of the full product of their labor. Article V “No man shall be compelled to work without his plain consent and without just compensation. The state will not permit to become effective any contract, pact or agreement with the purpose of the curtailment of any man, may the cause be for personal labor, education, or religious vows. The law in consequence does not recognize monastic orders, and will not permit their establishment, no matter what may be the denomination or purpose for which they pretend to be established.” The monastic orders were suppressed because bitter experience had proven them to be an unmitigated evil, and breeding grounds of sedition, oppression, exploitation, and social depravity. Out of their cloisters sprang all the cuartelazos which had flayed the common people; out of their cloisters sprang all the misery and poverty of the common people, their degradation and national disgrace. In all there were twenty-eight articles which destroyed clerical, aristocratic and military privileges of the fundamental prerequisites of a healthy social life. But the constitution which had brought such blessing to the peon brought nothing but destruction to the strangest and best organized institutions in Mexico. Accustomed only to the exercise of tyranny, and bitterly unused and untrained to obedience to the civil law, the Church and army struggled fiercely against the impending destruciton of their privilege to plunder and oppress. When the Secretary of the Interior issued orders that all government employees should take the oath of obedience to the Constitution of 1857, the Church deliberately advised and commanded disobedience to the order.The Archbishop of Mexico, Don Lozaro de la Garza, announed in circulars sent to the bishop a few days after the order for the taking of the oath had been given, that since the articles in the constitution were inimical to the institution, doctrine and rites of the Catholic Church neither the clergymen nor laymen could take this oath under any pretense whatever ln addition, a mandate from the Pope in Rome, the vicar of Christ on Earth, to disobey utterly and completely all the commands of the Constitution of 1857 was delivered. This mandate of Pope Pius IX not only unified and reinforced the Catholic opposition throughout the world against the Mexican government and its constitution, thus paving the way for the internecine strife and the armed European intervention which followed hard upon it. On the 11th of June, 1861, Benito Juarez was proclaimed constitutional president of Mexico, and on the 31st of October of the same year, France, England, and Spain signed a compact in London pledging themselves to a joint invasion of Mexico for the purpose of overthrowing the constitutional government, and establishing in its place a monarchy, supported by bayonet. A second fundamental cause of intervention is to be found in the struggle for commercial supremacy in the Latin American market which had sprung up between Europe and the United States, after Mexico and the Spanish colonies of Central and South America had obtained their independence from Spain, and opened their ports to the trade of the world. By the year 1861 the struggle had already become acute; and the European manufacturers and shippers, alarmed by the tremendous industrial advance of the United States, were eager to support any policy which would checkmate the influence of so formidable a rival in the Latin American republics. The spokesman of this powerful element in Europe was the petty bourgeois Napoleon 111. Possessed of mania for imperial expansion, the Emperor was already revelling in visions of a monarchist of Latin America the object commercial slave of France. His gargantuan ambition not only contemplated the establishment of a monarchy in Mexico subservient to France, but also contemplated the permanent seizure of the State of Sonoraand the State of Baja (lower) California for the sake of their gold mines, and as a base of operations for the future conquest of the United States. It is no wonder that international capitalism, the Clerical party in Mexico, the Papal See and the disgruntled European manufacturers and shippers, saw in the “Little Napolean" the deus ex machina who would serve all their allied ambitions in serving his own, who would crush the dangerous Mexican democracy, restore the power of the Church, and checkmate the commercial encroachments of the United States. To Napoleon 111 and the French army, therefore, was entrusted the sacred mission of Europe to destroy the new-born Mexican democracy. On the 31st of October, 1861, a convention representing England,France and Spain was held in London to finalize the military intervention in Mexico. A letter addressed to the European powers by President Benito Juarez was used as the legitimizing tool for the intervention. In that letter, the Mexican president informed the English, French and Spanish minister in Mexico City that in view of the recent civil war in Mexico, and the consequent disorganization of national finances, his government deemed it necessary and unavoidable to withhold the payment of the interest on the foreign credits for a period of two years. There was no attempt at repudiation; merely a request for forebearance on the part of the powers in view of Mexico’s stricken condition. It seems incredible to the imprejudiced mind that this act ofcommon business procedure, well within the generally accepted rules of international finance, should have been made the pretext for intervention. The fact remains that it was. On the second of January, 1862, the fleets of the three allies entered the harbor of Vera Cruz, Mexico. Spain was represented by six thousand soldiers and twenty-six warships and transports, France by three thousand soldiers and eleven warships, and England by a thousand men and seven warships. The invasion, of course, meant the suspension of all social reconstruction for the Mexican people. They had conquered for themselves liberty and a democratic constitution in the teeth of the Clerical party; they had now to defend their entire program of reform against Europe. The recent civil war had left them exhausted and famine stricken. With scarcely a pause they had now to enter upon a still more desparate and prolonged conflict; and the fact that Benito Juarez’ brilliance held at bay the vastly superior combined army of the French and Mexican reactionaries for more than three years, and then proceeded slowly but surely to drive them out of the country, is a remarkable proof of Mexican values and vitality. President Juarez officially recognized in favor of England a debt of $69,311,657; in favor of Spain a debt of $9,369,086 and in favor of France a debt of $200,000. The English and Spanish expressed full satisfaction with their arrangement, and shortly withdrew their force from Mexico. But with the aforementioned withdrawal Napoleon 111 was more at ease to exercise his now unrestricted power, and accomplish his purpose of establishing a monarchy in Mexico. The Church was intoxicated with joy. She saw before her an eternally unfolding supremacy, uninterrupted golden age of plunder. With a foreign army and a monarch-puppet at her demand, she stood at last on the pinnacle of her ambition. But the long expected fulfillment was destined to be of a short duration. The Church knew it not, but the reign of the priest had passed from Mexico forever. In the years 1864 and 1865 Juarez' army engaged the involvers in no less than four hundred and twenty-four pitched battles and skirmishes; and the years 1862 and 1863 were hardly lessbloody. In the four years of battle, twenty seven thousand Mexican patriots and twenty three thousand French soldiers and reactionary Mexicans were killed. During these early years of the war with France, Juarez headed a mobil government. On May 5, 1862 his poorly equipped forces stopped the superior army of Napoleon 111 at Puebla. Although it was another five years before the French met their final defeat at Queretero, the victory on May sth served to keep alive Juarez’ struggle to recover the reigns of power. On the 12th of December 1864, Maximillian entered Mexico accompanied by his wife “the Empress,” and appropriated for himself a monthly salary of $125,000 and an allowance of $167,666 a month for his wife making together a total of $1,700,000 a year; while his journey to Mexico cost $500,000 and the wage of his cooks and servants $315,000 more. In addition, Maximillian acquired loan of $8,000,000 francs as 90 new cut interest before leaving Europe hence this loan totally $40,000,000 had to be paid by Mexico. Maximillian of Hapsburg, brother of Franz Joseph, Emperor of Austria had consented to be entrhoned Emperor of Mexico by the allied armies of intervention, on conditions that France pledge herself to support him with her army, and continue to do so until such time as he could firmly entrench him-self in power. With these forces behind him, Maximillian set out to destroy Benito Juarez’ government. Juarez, however, was fully alive to the danger, and by continuously changing his seat of government, successfully eluded the force sent against him. In 1866, Napoleon 111 realized that France’s military prestige was floundering throughout the world and regretfully announced on the second of January the immediate and entire withdrawal of the French troops from Mexico. The withdrawal of the French troops from Mexico left Maximillian with reactionary forces to continue the struggle. This withdrawal was immediately followed by the overwhelming advance of Juarez forces. State after state, and citv after city fell into his hands, till Queretero, Mexico City, and Puebla alone remained in the possession of Maximillian. Maximillian, with his two generals, Mirama and Mejia, prepared to make a last stand at Queretero, the stronghold of his forces. Juarez promptly laid seige to the city, and in two months reduced the defender to desperate straits. Thereupon, Maximillian, seeing the end was near, offered to betray his forces, and deliver them without stipulation on condition that he himself be spared and permitted to return to Europe. Benito Juarez refused and on the 19th of May 1867, Maximillian was executed by a firing squad in Queretero, Mexico.