Judge rules against striking Center farmworkers

The striking farmworkers in Center, Colorado were dealt a severe setback when a Denver Judge, Hatfield Chilson, 
delayed his decision in the farmworkers’ request to be allowed to talk to migrant laborers at Mel Finerman labor 
camps. Although Finerman had allowed Teamster representatives to speak to the farmworkers, the UFW workers weren't 
being allowed in the camps. The UFW had sought an injunction to allow organizers into the camps. "Evan if we win, we lose,”
said UFW attorney Jonathon B. Chase at the conclusion of the two-day hearings. He said no decision could be expected 
in the case until Aug. 17 and noted that the bulk of harvesting will be completed by Sept. 1 in Finerman’s fields. 
Finerman, the nation’s second largest lettuce grower and Colorado's largest, is the target of a month-old strike by the UFW. 

IMMEDIATE ACCESS The union was filed suit July 23 asking for an order giving immediate access to the camp.
but Chilson decided that the union would suffer no “irreparable injury” from a delay of the action until the hearing which 
began Monday. When testimony in the hearing was concluded Tuesday afternoon, Chilson said his “problem" with the case wasn’t 
with facts but "with the applicable law.” He suggested it was “preferable to live with the delay of briefs" rather than an 
“ill-considered decision" after immediate oral arguments. Both attorneys agreed to file briefs. Both attorneys have already 
filed briefs on what they thought was the applicable law in the access suit. These briefs were filed by July 30. Various 
UFW-called witnesses Tuesday disputed testimony given Monday by Finerman “employee relations man" Melchor O'Campo. He testified 
that union organizers were permitted access to the camp until a pre-dawn picketing incident July 18. On that day Saguache County 
sheriff and Center police officials used tear gas to break up a UFW picket line allegedly disturbing the peace. 
Colorado Migrant Council employee Gilbert Rivera of Alamosa said Finerman vice president Jerry Goldstitr told him council 
representatives were "not needed" in the camp. The council is a social and medical service referral agency funded by the federal 
Office of Economic Oooortunitv. 

UNION WITNESS Earlier in the proceeding a union witness testified that Center police chief Emory Brewer had ordered his men 
to “shoot above the knees” during the July 18 tea-gassing incident. Tuesday, Brewer explained that his order to shoot 
“if necessary” had come only after a UFW organizer with a bullhorn had shouted ", . . we’ll come across the fence and kill all 
you sons of bitches.” The company last week announced it signed an agreement with the Teamsters requiring all workers to join 
the Teamsters union.