WE'RE STANDING UP TO THEM IN THE FIELDSWILL YOU STAND UP TO THEM IN 
THE STORES?

Boycotts are a drag. You’re tired of them, just as the farm workers are tired of striking. 
But the workers will not be reduced to chattel again. Cesar Chavez asks consumers to 
unite as never before. Nothing less will cause the growers to grant workers the simple 
right to vote, by secret ballot, on which union will represent them: the UFW or the 
Teamsters.

Three years ago a massive consumer boycott dragged growers kicking and screaming 
into the 20th Century. Now, when UFW’s hard-won contracts arc up for renewal, along 
come Teamster honchos who, without a word to the workers, sign a ready-made 
contract with the growers. That Teamster contract reinstitutes the notorious Labor 
Contractor hiring system, reduces the workers’ already minimal pay, imposes no 
restrictions on the use of man-killing pesticides and leaves the workers without any 
effective medical benefits. There are other cruel inadequacies in the Teamsters’ 
sweetheart contract, but that should be enough to make you lose your taste for grapes. 
So how come these union-hating growers welcome Teamster advances rather than 
negotiate with a worker controlled union? Growers, not surprisingly, prefer to deal with 
bosses who have nothing in common with the men and women who spend their lives 
bent over in the fields. The farm workers are seeking redress via the courts and by 
petitioning the growers for secret-ballot elections. The Teamsters are now importing 
scab labor (many of whom arrive not knowing they arc strike-breakers and who are coerced to 
keep working by the Teamsters’ inelegant persuasions!). The bitter fruit of this labor is 
now arriving at stores in your neighborhood. If these grapes sell, the next bunch of 
growers with UFW contracts to renew (in July) will follow the lead of their Coachella 
peers and invite the Teamsters to “organize” the fields on their terms i.e. t a lower hourly 
wage; no restriction on the use of condemned sprays, including nerve gas; reinstitution 
of the slavelabor contractor system, and a medical plan that neatly excludes seasonal 
workers! To strike is to go hungry, and for many workers it means going to jail. But 
strike we will, even knowing this may not prevent the harvest. You arc our last line of 
defense. You arc the one critical clement the Teamsters cannot control. If you arc 
sickened by this attempt to return farm workers to the status of cattle, then the workers' 
cause is not yet lost. The Growers understand sales. The memory of the last great 
boycott is their recurring nightmare. To be stuck with a worthless crop is a fate even worse than 
negotiating with a worker-control-led union. 

Nothing less than a massive consumer boycott of grapes and iceberg lettuce will cause 
the growers to recognize a union that represents the workers. So here's what you can 
do to support the farmworkers in their non-violent resistance to the Grower-Teamster 
consortium: 1. Boycott all table grapes. 2. Contribute money to help feed the workers 
who will miss the few months of work when they can earn wages. The money you send 
will be used for basics: food, clothing, medicine. 3. Continue to boycott iceberg lettuce, 
Safeway and 4 P stores.
