Rautenstraus promises complete investigation

A meeting between University Vice-President Roland C. Rautenstraus and several University Chicanos resulted in Rautenstraus’ promise to investigate fully charges against William Appenzeller and the Recreation Departments’ hiring procedures. The Chicano students and staff members listed the charges against Appenzeller and restated the UMAS organizations’ decision to call for Appenzeller’s resignation or termination. Rautenstraus, who was out of town when 200 UMAS students and staff marched July 16 in protest of Appenzeller’s actions, listened while the Chicanos enumerated the charges, including: Appenzeller’s hiring of Peter Solomon, former ASUC student-body president, without posting the job opening in direct violation of University and federal Affirmative Action guidelines. Rautenstraus expressed some familiarity with the rules involved, but said “there may have been some ambiguity in our minds about the necessity of posting part-time, student appointment jobs.” "Appenzeller has admitted that he violated the guidelines, so he knew what the rules were,” Jess Vigil, ASUC tri-exec, said. Solomon was terminated as of July 15 before the controversy became widely known in the University community. Appenzeller’s attempts to bribe UMAS students into silence by firing Solomon and promising higher wages for Chicano Recreation workers, more equal assignment of menial tasks, and the hiring of a Chicano coordinator. “He was just trying to buy us off,” Vigil said. Preferential treatment given Anglo students and staff in use of Recreation facilities. One Chicano student told of

Appenzeller's order for him to vacate a glass-walled handball court so that two Anglos could use that court, "so their wives can see them play.” Appenzeller told the Chicano that he could use one of the other handball courts, but when the student refused, Appenzeller ordered him off the court. Repeated racist statements by Appenzeller when asked why no Chicano coordinators worked for the Recreation. Appenzeller had rationalized his hiring policies by saying “Chicanos just don’t produce.” “How can a man who would make such a racist remark realistically promise that he will change?” Vigil asked. Charges by Chicano Rec. employees who for two years have complained of being given all the menial tasks while Anglos man the desk jobs. "We told Appenzeller long ago that everyone should have to shovel snow and wash towels, but Chicanos always end up doing those jobs,” Mike Garcia, a MAP student, said. “While Anglo staff members sometimes had to work on crews charged with shoveling snow, there were always Chicanos doing those jobs,” Garcia told Rautenstraus. The fact that after two years of meeting with Appenzeller about job assignments, and repeated promises by Appenzeller to change the situation, no action has ever been taken. Rautenstraus said his investigation would be completed "within two weeks of today (June 19).” He would promise no certain course of action, but said he took the charges ’very seriously.’
