Don 't buy Farah pants!by Freddy MoralesMillions of Americans are hearing about the Farah strike. The full story of the exploitation, harassment, and unfair labor practices engaged in by the huge Farah Company is being told loud and clear to consumers, retailers, and the general public around the country. The Farah workers are struggling to have the legal right to organize, bargain collectively, and secure the right to work with the dignity of a human being. The nation-wide strike started in San Antonio where a group of employees were discharged for no apparent reason. The following day, the walkouts in El Paso began. Willie Farah has made the workers unhappy. He has seriously rejected the workers. He has not offered the many workers he has employed, the many benefits other companies have. Willie Farah offers no job security to the workers. Farah can fire anyone anytime with no cause. Willie Farah offers no wage increases. He makes wage increases only when and if he wants to. There are no guaranteed increases with Farah. The employees have no voice as to production rates. Farah can set them as high as he wants and fires those who cannot physically comply. Farah offers no maternity benefits. When the employee returns, she loses her position on the pay scale and has to start all over again on the same pay i i —ishe started on. Farah offers inadequate vacation and holidays. Now let’s look at what would a union offer to the workers. The union would offer job security. No one will be fired without just cause. There will be negotiated wage increases according to a definite schedule. There would also be negotiated production standards. The employees will have a say about how much they can produce. There would be maternity insurance and negotiated leaves for illness and personal reasons. The employees will have the right to return to their same jobs with the same rate of pay. Plus the workers will have adequate vacations and paid holidays. At Farah right now there are over 3,000 workers on strike. This comprises one-third of the whole working force. More workers are leaving the plant as the time goes by. Another one third of the workers in Farah sympathize with the union, but the main reason they do not join the union is because they are afraid of Willie Farah. The ' other one-third of the Farah 1 workers reject the idea of a union. The main reason for this rejection is because they have been bought by Willie Farah. Support has been coming in from all over the community. The Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America-AFL-CIO, in which the union of Farah is an affiliate, has given the strikers money, food stamps, and many other necessities they might need. Many congressmenand senators have issued their support against Farah. Recently Senator Edward Kennedy charged Farah of not practicing fair tactics with the strikers. Still Farah has shown to be a very ignorant man. He has fired the early organizers of the union. He has accused them as communists and has harassed them. He has used the courts. Farah has been charged from many sides that he is guilty of unfair labor practices. Farah will have to sometime or another negotiate with the union. At the present time Willie Farah, as a result of the strike, is losing millions of dollars. In the United States right now much publicity is being given throughout the states concerning the Farah strike, but this is not the case as it is found in Colorado compared to other states. Colorado is one of the least publicized about the strike. Many people do not know what is going on with the strikers, who are 85% Chicana. Plans are now being made to work within the Boulder area and other areas within the state. We urge all of our readers to try and support the strike in any way possible. Bulletins and leaflets will be distributed later on as to inform you when we can start to create publicity about the strike. Picket lines will be planned later on, on all stores that carry Farah Slacks. We plan to boycott all stores that do not reject Farah Slacks whether it be in Boulder, Denver, Pueblo or anyplace else.