Çartas- Cartas - Cartas - Cartas 
ASUC SAYS NO to Teller Center

The Associated Students of the University of Colorado (ASUC) are alarmed at the prospect of having the Edward E. Teller Center for the Advancement of Science, Technology, and Politics built on our campus. Our concerns fall in three major areas. 

I. Money for the Teller Center has been accepted and placed in the University Development Foundation without Regential or any other University approval of the center. Accepting money for anything without having it first approved by some University authority is highly irregular. It seems that a great deal of exceptions to University policy are being made in order to ramrod this center through. 

II. ASUC can not agree with naming any center after such a man as Edward E. Teller. Teller is known as the father of the hydrogen bomb. Evidence indicates that Teller knew the harmful effects of radiation before the government took any steps to protect the public from atomic radiation. We feel that Teller himself was responsible for the deaths of thousands of Americans from leukemia and cancer, direct results of exposure to atomic radiation, and for thousands of deformed children whose mothers were exposed to radiation. These charges have been leveled at Teller by Doctor Irwin D.J. Bross of Eggertsville, New York. Teller’s right-wing connections also lead us to feel that the center may be a front for right-wing politics. Teller sits on the National Strategy Committee of one of the most prominent right-wing organizations in the country, the American Securities Council. Retired General Curtis E.LeMay, George Wallace’s vice presidential candidate in the 1968 presidential elections, also sits on this committee. Teller also sits on the Board of Directors of the Hertz Foundation, another important right-wing organization. Even if we could accept Teller’s questionable integrity, we can not accept a center whose politics and ideologies would most certainly be similar to those of Teller. 

III. ASUC believes that the Teller Center is a front for oil companies who wish to make and profit off atomic blasts similar to Rulison and Rio Blanco to release natural gas on the Western Slope of Colorado. Edward E. Teller, proposed “1000 atomic blasts per year for Colorado” at a Republican Governor’s Conference in May, 1973. That would be three blasts per day. Over ninety-percent of the donations received thus far for the center have come from oil companies or persons associated with oil. One oil company in particular, Tesoro Petroleum Corporation, seems to have a huge interest in the Center. It is also worth noting, that Tesoro, Chevron Oil, and other oil companies already are drilling and moving in on the Western Slope of Colorado. In fact, Chevron Oil Company has three drillings "in Rio Blanco County, the area of the most recent blast, alone. Here is a list pf the contributors to the Teller Center and their connections with oil. 

Arthur Spitzer, President of Digas Corporation, a subsidiary of Tesoro petroleum Corp. $106,000 .... (In Tsoro stocks)
Eugene Nasch, Vice-President of Digas Corporation, a subsidiary of Tesoro.... $5,719 
Chevron Oil Company.... $1,2OO 
Hamilton Brothers Oil Commpany.... $1,2OO 
Vickers Refining Co.... $6OO
Cortlandt S. Dietler, President of Western Crude Oil Co., a subsidiary of Tesoro Petroleum .... $6OO 
Charles E. Dimit. President of TOD Oil Co. $6OO 
Frank Winegar, Oil Products and Investments, Denver $6OO 

Other donors include Charlotte Cabot, David Kovacs, The Owen Foundation, and the Carthage Foundation. Sufficient information has not yet been found on any of these donors to make any statement. ASUC is looking deeper into the matter of the Teller Center every day. We are convinced, Center can do nothing but harm to the University of Colorado. The center has blatantly violated University policy. It has been named I drier a man of dubious character. We feel that it will be a center that concentrates on right-wing politics. It is being financed by oil companies with a vested interest in the center. A center surrounded by such questions can be nothing but corrupt and we demand that he Regents of the University of Colorado quash any attempts to build such a center in Boulder. Patty Price and Jess Vigil Student Body Presidents, University of Colorado, Boulder