No relief for Center strikers

Efforts proved futile last week to striking lettuce workers in Center, Colorado to renew 
the expired United Farmworkers Union (UFW) contracts with the Mel Finerman Lettuce 
Company. The striking workers walked out of the fields last month when negotiations 
ceased between the Finerman company and the UFW to consider renewal of the UFWs 
expired two-year contract with the Finerman Company. Last week the Finerman 
company ignored the demands of UFW strikers and signed contracts with the 
Teamsters Union. These contracts were “sweetheart contracts” in which no elections 
were held among the workers to determine which union they wanted to represent them... 

...his strike-breaking tactic in favor of the Teamsters used by the Finerman Company 
follows a similar pattern of that in California and Arizona. The pattern has been to first 
break off contracts with the UFW, have a respectable waiting period, and then suddenly 
sign some contracts with the Teamsters. UFW supporters continue to picket outside the 
Finerman camp, encouraging the workers to leave the fields and go to work for other 
companies. All of the crews had left the fields last Sunday as a result of coaxing from 
the picketers and Finerman’s signing with the Teamsters, according to Felipe Martinez 
of the Farm Labor Task Force (FLTF), who has been involved with the workers in 
Center while delivering food and money to the needy strikers. There were originally five crews 
of approximately 30-60 people working in the fields, but many of them have now left to work for other 
companies. However, many of those who leave often return to work again the next day. 
Martinez said Melchor O’Campo is sending recruiters into Arizona where there are other 
camps to recruit workers to come to Colorado to work for Finerman. The company pays 
the workers $lOO for traveling expenses to Colorado, then collects it again by taking it 
out of the workers check once he has started working. Whereas the UFW regards the 
hiring halls as most important in their provisions for hiring procedures for all 
farmworkers, under the new contract with the Teamsters, the hiring hall has been 
eliminated because the Teamsters feel the halls are discriminatory in favor of Chicanos 
and other abuses of farmworkers. Also under the UFW contract the crew leader has 
been eliminated, however, under the new Teamster contracts, the crew leader has the 
power to recruit the field workers to the camps, and pay them directly himself. Support 
and contributions are still needed in Center. UMAS students and FLTF members have 
been taking carloads of volunteers to help the striking farmworkers picket the Finerman 
camp. Also, food and other donations have been taken to the needy farmworkers, but 
much is still needed. For all students who wish to assist the needy farmworkers in their 
struggle, stop by UMC 187 to find out how you can help.

