car fas -cart os-car fas-car fas-car fas - Kiva clubLetter to the Editor, I would like to thank you for the great compliment you paid to me in your March 6th issue, in your editorial, “Give Mateski the axe.” The Daily has repeatedly suggested I was a hatchetman for Solomon, but I have never before been given credit as having an “in” to the President of the United States. This is most satisfying to think that a small-town contender for student body president has such an “in-” and potential influence! Even Peter Solomon has never been given that much credit. I sincerely hope that your farsighted analysis is a prediction of things to come! If so, I have a bright political future indeed, and look forward to it. Until 1988 - Dennis Mateski P.S. I feel slighted after your editorial to find my pig smaller than Mr. Solomon’s, in your cartoon. A little more consistency would make your paper a bit more believable! We have found from our limited experience with pigs that the pig who sucks hind tit, is often smaller . . . the editor.Open Letter In the interest of humanity, peace and understanding. We of the University of New Mexico Kiva Club and all concerned people, beg of those who are in control of the lives of the Indian people of Wounded Knee to at least show some kindness towards the world as the world watches to see if the United States of America can handle its domestic situation. This situation was not created by the American Indian people, but by the insensitive politicians who have been in control of the U.S. since the last of the American Indian resistance at Wounded Knee which was so tragically wiped out with guns and bullets. The negative situations which exist amongst all of the American Indians seems to be characteristic of the negativeness found in the communities of all the minority peoples. Our Brothers of the Human Race, the Browns, the Blacks, the Yellows, and the Whites as well, will, if not understood in time, surely be the next people to whom the Army of the United States will march upon someday.We point to the Harmony that is found between the sky and the earth and the plants and animals for our sense of destiny and our sense of Humanity and understanding. Therefore, in this light, we present the following demands: 1. We demand of the President of the United States, Richard Nixon, and the Congress of the United States, the Governor of the State of South Dakota, that they call off their troops. We do not desire another Wounded Knee to happen in 1973. 2. We demand of the Governor of the State of New Mexico, Bruce King, to use all the political power that he has to demand of the President, the U.S. Congress, and the South Dakota Governor, as well as the other Governors of the United States of America that all troops be called off at Wounded Knee in order to let Humanity exist. 3. We demand of the Bureau of Indian Affairs as the trustee agency for Indian People, that it demand of the President, State Governors, the U.S. Congress and to the U.S. Army and the Federal officials that all Military action against the Indians at Wounded Knee be ceased Immediately. 4. After which we demand immediate action be taken to reorganize the 8.1.A. and make it into a new and fresh agency which can be more humane in dealing with the American Indian. We point to the many 8.1.A. policies like the termination policy, to the Indian reorganization act of 1934 as evidence that the 8.1.A. (as itstands) cannot and will not be effective in dealing with Indian people. We point to the incident at Wounded Knee in 1890 and 1973, the Gallup, New Mexico situation, the Lamberton, North Carolina situation, and Los Angeles situation, and all issues to which the American Indian has made its stand against injustice, racial prejudice, and political oppression. 5. We demand to the Navajo Tribal Council, the Mescalero, the Jicarilla tribal councils, and the All, Indian Pueblo council, that they take immediate action. And support the cause of justice, racial balance, and freedom from oppression and also ask these councils to demand immediate action be taken in order to prevent unnecessary bloodshed at Wounded Knee, Lumberton, Gallup, and every other place where Indians have stood up for their rights to be human beings. 6. We demand that the University of New Mexico faculty, students, and administration take immediate action to the before governmental organizations and officials to stop the military action about to take place at Wounded Knee, 1973. Kiva Club University of New Mexico Albuquerque We of the Native American Indian Organization (N.A.1.0.) urge all people concerned to write to their Congressman, Senators, Governors, Etc.? to prevent bloodshed at Wounded Knee. We support all the demands as prestated.