Vera Cruz visits campus

Phillip Vera Cruz, second vice president of the United Farm Workers, was a special 
guest of the Farm Labor Task Force at the University this week. Vera Cruz was elected 
to the union office at the UFW’s Constitutional Convention held last month. He is a 
native of the Philippine Islands and an early organizer of Filipino farm workers. He was 
one of the leaders of the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee which called the 
first grape strike in Delano in 1965. The strike was joined by Cesar Chavez’ National 
Farm Workers Association and the Huelga which brought victory to the grape workers in 
1970 began. While at the University, Vera Cruz was a guest lecturer and also attempted 
to debate a spokesman for the group attempting to bring head lettuce back to the 
dorms, but no one showed.

He told students his union, the UFW, was the only representative of the farm workers. 
"We don't want those fat guys who play golf with cabinet members,” he said. "The 
Teamsters Union is working with California growers to destroy our union." "There's no 
use talking about rights and benefits unless you have the power to enforce it,” Vera 
Cruz said. He said the farm workers had learned from experience that unionization was 
their only avenue. He said farm workers want a union that will fight for them. “The 
average farm workers feed 7,000 people in this country," he said, “why does a man who 
feeds 7,000 people have no place to go when he is too old to work?” Until the UFW 
began providing retirement benefits, the old workers were forgotten, he said.
The problem of retirement is especially crucial for the elderly Filipino because most of 
them who came during the 20’s and 30’s left their families behind. They never made 
enough money to send for their brides and racist laws prohibited them from marrying 
Whites. Therefore, most Filipino workers, like Vera Cruz, have no family to fall back on. 
The UFW is building a 40 unit retirement village to provide for these early pioneers. 
Vera Cruz urged Chicano students to use their educations to help their people. He said 
many of the recent Filipino immigrants who were educated had turned their backs on 
the needs of the Filipino farm workers. "If you don’t help your own people, you don’t 
deserve to be treated better than a dog!” he said.

