‘Mounted Rangers’ formed in Monte Vista

Alfred Martinez, Chief of the Monte Vista Police Department, was given the authority to 
make a decision on the law enforcement assistance of the Colorado Mounted Rangers 
on October 11, 1973. Mayor Gene Otto gave his full support along with the Councils 
approval by announcing that "They would rely solely on his good judgement," Martinez, 
as to the use of the auxiliary law enforcement group. Final approval was given to 
Martinez when the Council went into an executive session which lasted only fifteen 
minutes. One Chicano present at this meeting showed his objection by advancing the 
council table in a very disgusted and discouraged manner. At this point the meeting was 
brought to a halt. As the meeting continued another concerned Chicano stated, “Just 
remember this: When blood is shed in this Valley, you aborigated your responsibility." 
Comments by other Chicanos were heard as to the Council having Anglo interests and accused the members of using Chicanos, referring to the Police Department 
to combat the complaints of Chicanos. After a heated dispute the Mayor then stood up 
in a “dictatorship manner” and responded by saying “you mind your language, you don’t 
talk to me like that." The meeting was then turned to the issue of liability and whether 
the city could be held responsible for the actions of the Rangers. Eugene L. Farish, City 
Attorney, read a legal memorandum to those present, it stated that “If the city should 
decide to continue the services of the Mounted Rangers, it would be advisable to look 
into (Liability) insurance.” Farish said that the city may already have the necessary 
liability and, if not, that it could be obtained. As a defense to the use of the Mounted 
Rangers, Martinez indicated that they have been of much assistance to the Police 
Department. Charges leveled against the Rangers by a spokesman for the Chicano 
group claimed the following statements were made by Captain Henry Chafin,
organizer of the Rangers. “Any person who does not want to speak English should go 
back to Mexico. The name Chicano is anti-everything I’ve worked 40 years for. Every 
individual that professes to be a Chicano is on welfare or is getting by without working 
somehow.” Raymond “Shorty” Montano, spokesman for the group, stated that Chafin is 
accepted as the leader of the Rangers and therefore his ignorance is accepted for the 
allegations made. Various other subject matter were presented by Chicanos. If the 
rangers are not disarmed that in blind ignorance they will eventually shoot someone. 
Possible training from the FBI, which in effect, does not comply with their guidelines. 
Leßoy Meas said that if Monte Vista needs more law enforcement that it should try and 
secure money from Congress through Law Enforcement Assistance Administration 
(LEAA). “If extra help is needed, take the badge and the gun away from them and keep 
it here (Police Department) until there is an emergency.

