WAC forgot La Raza
The sessions concerning Chicanoismo at this year’s World Affairs Conference were conspicuous only in their absence. There were no participants in the conference from the Chicano community. Also omitted from the conference were women. Blacks, Arabs, and Indians. Howard Higman, chairman of the WAC planning committee, says this is because participants from these areas did not respond to invitations. Sal Rameriz, the only Chicano on the WAC committee, said it is because of the cut in the WAC budget. Ramirez told El Diario he had invited three Chicanos to the conference. Cleofas Calleros, an artist and historian from the El Paso area, was invited, but unfortunately he died recently. Another potential participant, Henry Castle, could not attend and Octavio Paz did not respond to an invitation. Ramirez said he felt the biggest problem was the lack of funds to pay transportation or to compensate participants for missing a week's work. Higman said not one received transportation allowances this year, but it has been reported in the Daily that many did, in fact, receive help in this area. Higman told us he thought the Rolling Stone Magazine staff had come to the conference in their own car. I’m sure they flew in," Tim Lange of the Colorado Daily said. When asked why there were no sessions concerning Chicanos, Higman said the participants decide what they want to discuss at the conference. The catch 22 of the situation is if there are no minority participants, there will be no minority sessions. It appears after comparing this year’s program and last year’s that many of the same people are returning. The World Affairs Conference appears to be turning into a reunion of a select group of intellectuals, rather than a seminar of universal thought. When this was suggested to Higman, he said it was simply not true, the WAC committee followed the direction indicated by the participants. “We might have something about Indians next year," he said, when asked if minorities were intentionally omitted. This suggests to us that these White intellectuals do not listen to minorities until they are confronted with a Wounded Knee, a Tierra Amarilla or a Watts. Perhaps this is a mandate. One of the problems may have been that there has been little minority input on the planning committee. Higman said he would welcome our participation. We suggest that if there is to be a conference next year, UMAS should take part. But, if the WAC committee continues to ignore much of the world’s people in this program, we agree with Rich Mauer of the Colorado Daily who said in a Daily editorial that “it’s about time to call it quits.”


