Police hassles

Ron Vigil is very correct in distinguishing himself from the human beings in uniform and 
wearing guns, badges and other toys for little children to make them feel big and 
important since they cannot feel loved. But your article giving “another view of the 
University police” again misses the main point. The main point is that any, all, and every 
police force is designed for two reasons: 1) to protect the property rights of those who 
possess property and 2) to keep themselves in existence, drawing pay for spending 
their time in these two aims. Since Chicanos have less property than others, of course 
they are against the police more than are others who have more property. When 
Chicanos as a group and/or as individuals become richer than other groups or 
individuals, then they, too, will want to have policemen “protecting” them. But this does 
not and will not change the sad fact that police bureaucracies are useful solely for 
maintaining the injustices of an unjust society, even if it means killing people (and, 
occasionally, being killed themselves “Do you want to live forever?” was the U.S. 
Marines' battle cry during the second world war, so the story goes). Therefore, it doesn’t 
matter if “all charges were dropped” or if the police are open to “constructive change.” 
The only constructive change in police bureaucracies is their complete
abolition and placing on the people themselves the responsibility to behave toward one 
another like amigos. Nothing else will be enough. 

Sinceramente, John H. Davenport Pintos ask for books Books dealing with Chicanos, including our history, 
culture, politics, etc., are being collected for use by prisoners in the Canyon City penitentiary. The books 
are being collected by members of the St. Thomas Aquinas Newman Center, located at 
904 14th Street in Boulder. If you can donate books of your own, or help locate books 
for the pintos, bring them to the Newman Center. Fiesta, Golden Gate Youth Camp, an 
institution for juvenile boys located north of Boulder, is having a fiesta on Saturday, 
August 11, from 4:00 to 10:30 p.m. The camp is in need of support from other Chicanos 
and Blacks to continue to operate a juvenile program for minority youth. Food, music, 
mariachis, dancers, and teatro are only a part of the entertainment available for only 50 
cents a person. For more information and support of the juvenile program, contact Dan 
Escalante, Sylvia Manzanares, or Randy Esquibel in UMC 187, UMAS office. Directions 
to the camp will also be drawn on a road map in the UMAS office.

