University police called ‘racist’

University student Eugene Trujillo has accused the University Security Force of “racist, inhumane actions” after an incident June 15 at the Colorado Courts, a part of University Housing. The incident involved Trujillo, his wife Debby, and two other University students, Dan Vigil and Ron Vigil. The four Chicanos were sitting on Dan’s porch drinking beer and singing songs. Gene complained of feeling ill and walked around the side of the building, where he was joined by Dan Vigil. Gene was leaning against the building when Officer Lee Scott of the University police approached Gene and asked him for identification. Ron Vigil, who himself is a member of the University Security Force, approached Officer Scott and showed Scott his identification badge. "I tried to talk to Scott, but we were all talking at the same time,” Vigil said, "but Scott did say Gene was being arrested for public drunkenness.” Trujillo and Scott argued about the arrest, since Trujillo felt the arrest was unjustified. Scott accused Trujillo of urinating on the wall of the building, and said he was responding to a disturbance call. “Scott was scared to be in a situation involving minority students," Vigil said, “and all we were doing was playing a guitar.” Officer Scott then called for reinforcements, and then accused Dan Vigil of interfering with his arrest of Trujillo. Two officers, one not in uniform, then arrived at the scene. Officer Michael Watson talked to Ron Vigil and told him that the situation was getting out of hand after Vigil explained what was happening. Then Lieutenant Ryan of the Security Force showed up. Ryan ordered the other officers to put handcuffs on Trujillo, and Ron Vigil tried to talk to Ryan. Trujillo’s wife began to object to the officers’ treatment of her husband, saying "you don't have to be so rough with him!” “Ryan grabbed Debbie by her hair, and maced her right in the eyes,” Ron Vigil said, “and when I said ‘That’s no way to treat a lady’ he maced me in the eyes." Eugene Trujillo immediately tried to stop Ryan but Trujillo was already handcuffed and could do nothing. Trujillo was charged with resisting arrest and public drunkenness, while Dan Vigil, Ron Vigil, and Debbie Trujillo were charged with interference. “There was no reason for it!" Ron Vigil said. Officials react After a series of meetings with such illuminaries as Tim Fuller, City Manager Archie Twitchell, District Attorney Alex Hunter, University Disciplinary officer William Cain, and University Security Force Chief John Towles, Trujillo has gained a deep insight into the depth and nature of discrimination in Boulder. When officials were not certain that the four would fight the charges, Trujillo and the others were treated quite roughly. “We were contacted by Cain who told us we would face disciplinary action from the University if we were convicted of the charges," Trujillo said.

However, after Ron Vigil turned in a written statement giving his side of the story, the officials' attitude changed. “When the city and university officials began to realize just how wrong the police were, we began getting all kinds of cooperation,” Trujillo said. All charges except the public intoxication charge were dropped, and Trujillo was left off with a suspended sentence and no fine. At a meeting with Towle, Officer Scott, Dean Small of Human Relations, and Detective Evans, Trujillo heard Evans say he felt “afraid and physically threatened” when he came into contact with minority group people. Chief Towle said his police force was “lacking in awareness and sensitivity” and recommended sensitivity training for the officers. This recommendation was extremely agreeable to Officer Scott, whom Trujillo quoted as saying “as far as I’m concerned, I’d be receptive to anything that will save my ass.” “People should be aware of what they’re up against in Boulder," Trujillo said.

University student Eugene Trujillo has accused the University Security Force of “racist, inhumane actions” after an incident June 15 at the Colorado Courts, a part of University Housing. The incident involved Trujillo, his wife Debby, and two other University students, Dan Vigil and Ron Vigil. The four Chicanos were sitting on Dan’s porch drinking beer and singing songs. Gene complained of feeling ill and walked around the side of the building, where he was joined by Dan Vigil. Gene was leaning against the building when Officer Lee Scott of the University police approached Gene and asked him for identification. Ron Vigil, who himself is a member of the University Security Force, approached Officer Scott and showed Scott his identification badge. "I tried to talk to Scott, but we were all talking at the same time,” Vigil said, "but Scott did say Gene was being arrested for public drunkeness.” Trujillo and Scott argued about the arrest, since Trujillo felt the arrest was unjustified. Scott accused Trujillo of urinating on the wall of the building, and said he was responding to a distrubance call. “Scott was scared to be in a situation involving minority students," Vigil said, “and all we were doing was playing a guitar.” Officer Scott then called for reinforcements, and then accused Dan Vigil of interfering with his arrest of Trujillo. Two officers, one not in uniform, then arrived at the scene. Officer Michael Watson

talked to Ron Vigil and told him that the situation was getting out of hand after Vigil explained what was happening. Then Lieutenant Ryan of the Security Force showed up. Ryan ordered the other officers to put handcuffs on Trujillo, and Ron Vigil tried to talk to Ryan. Trujillo’s wife began to object to the officers’ treatment of her husband, saying "you don't have to be so rough with him!” “Ryan grabbed Debbie by her hair, and maced her right in the eyes,” Ron Vigil said, “and when I said ‘That’s no way to treat a lady’ he maced me in the eyes." Eugene Trujillo immediately tried to stop Ryan but Trujillo was already handcuffed and could do nothing. Trujillo was charged with resisting arrest and public drunkeness, while Dan Vigil, Ron Vigil, and Debbie Trujillo were charged with interference. “There was no reason for it!" Ron Vigil said. Officials react After a series of meetings with such illuminaries as Tim Fuller, City Manager Archie Twitchell, District Attorney Alex Hunter, University Disciplinary officer William Cain, and University Security Force Chief John Towles, Trujillo has gained a deep insight into the depth and nature of discrimination in Boulder. When officials were not certain that the four would fight the charges, Trujillo and the others were treated quite roughly. “We were contacted by Cain who told us we would face disciplinary action from the University if we were convicted of the charges," Trujillo said.

However, after Ron Vigil turned in a written statement giving his side of the story, the officials' attitude changed. “When the city and university officials began to realize just how wrong the police were, we began getting all kinds of cooperation,” Trujillo said. All charges except the public intoxication charge were dropped, and Trujillo was left off with a suspended sentence and no fine. At a meeting with Towle, Officer Scott, Dean Small of Human Relations, and Detective Evans, Trujillo heard Evans say he felt “afraid and physically threatened” when he came into contact with minority group people. Chief Towle said his police force was “lacking in awareness and sensitivity” and recommended sensitivity training for the officers. This recommendation was extremely agreeable to Officer Scott, whom Trujillo quoted as saying “as far as I’m concerned, I’d be receptive to anything that will save my ass.” “People should be aware of what they’re up against in Boulder," Trujillo said.

