City promises action

Chicanos, politicos discuss police harassment

by Paul Mora and

Guillermo DeHerrera Charges of police harassment of Chicanos in Boulder were aired last Friday in a meeting between Boulder city manager Archie Twitchell and about 20 Chicanos from Boulder and Greeley. UMAS organization member Jose Ortega told Twitchell and Boulder city councilpersons Ruth Correll, Tim Fuller and Janet Roberts that a pattern of police harassment of Boulder Chicanos is evident. The city government officials listened as Chicanos involved in the incidents gave their side of the story. Colonial, Colony being watched A number of residents of the Colonial and Colony Houses, two buildings which may be purchased by the UMAS organization, complained of police harassment manifested in a number of ways. “The pigs come down the alleys at 3:00 a.m. and scan their floodlights in our windows,” Jess Vigil, an UMAS student, said. Vigil noted that this sort of action is not standard operating procedure and doesn’t occur at white fraternities and sororities. Also, police officers have been stopping residents of the two halls and asking the residents to fill out contact cards “for identification purposes.” The officers tell residents that a number of suspected pushers live at the two houses, but Vigil said “that's a completely false statement, a lie." Residents and visitors entering the two houses are also stopped and told to produce identification, for no apparent reason. “The police are just continually harassing us,” Vigil said. “The taxpayers put up $150,000 for more police on the hill,” Vigil said, “and all those officers are doing is hassling Chicanos and longhairs. The police should protect the people against rip-offs from the hill merchants and landlords, and leave us alone." Another resident of the hill area said the police were “too busy busting people with just a joint or a lid, when they should be stopping all the burglaries, rapes, and rip-offs." He declined to be identified, saying “the landlord at my place would probably call the police to come and bust me if they knew it was me talking.” Teatro members harassed Another incident began June 15 when two Boulder police detectives encountered a group of Chicanos from Greeley who were leaving St. Thomas Aquinas Church, 14th and Aurora. The group had just finished performing at St. Thomas and were preparing to return to Greeley when the detectives approached the group. The police report of the incident states that a young girl was observed drinking from an open liquor bottle, and the detectives approached to check the age of about eight Chicanos. However, according to Jose Calderon, “the bottles the cops saw were empty, and were used as props in el teatro.” “The detectives asked Preslano Montoya for an I.D. because he was carrying one of the empty bottles we use in our teatro,” Eddie Guerrero, one of the group, said, "and Pres didn’t have an I.D. We were talking to the cop and he started getting hysterical." The detective began walking backwards from the group of Chicanos, shouting at the group “stay away from me." He simultaneously began moving his coat back and made motions as to reach for his gun. The other detective was calling for reinforcements, and “in about a minute there were at least 10 police cars at St. Thomas, with all the cops in riot gear," Calderon said. This group of officers immediately began pushing the Chicanos out of the street and onto the sidewalk, with some officers making remarks about “this group of Mexicans." Calderon and a priest from St. Thomas were attempting to talk to a police officer who responded by jabbing both of them with his nightstick, ordering the two to the curb. Police officers then decided that Calderon was being obstructive and charged him with menacing a police officer and obstruction of police authority. Preslano Montoya, meanwhile, was arrested for possession of alcohol in a public place. The group of Chicanos then went to the police station and waited for Calderon and Montoya to be bailed out. Calderon’s bail was set at $5OO, while Montoya’s bail was $25. They were both bailed out soon after they were arrested. “Why not Coors?” The final incident told to Councilman Fuller happened in Libby Hall to two Chicanas. They were drinking beer in their room when an officer from the University Security Force knocked and asked to be admitted. After ascertaining that everything was in order, one of the officers said “Why aren't you drinking Coors beer?", making reference to the boycott Chicanos have been observing of Coors products. “Luckily the two students knew about the boycott and just told the officers why they weren’t drinking Coors," Jose Ortega said, “they could have reacted very differently, though." The main thrust of the meeting was that all charges against Chicanos involved in these incidents be dropped. Twitchell agreed to conduct an investigation into the charges and take some action within two weeks of the June 22 meeting. Councilman Fuller also said that future city council actions in regard to the Boulder police will "have much more input from local Chicanos." ‘‘We expect all the defendants to be found guilty,” Jose Ortega said, “but what the police can expect if the charges are not dropped is self-defense.”