Cover story
Bombing trials set for UMAS duo
by John L. Espinosa
The trial of Anselmo “Elmer” Peralta, 27, will begin next Monday in District Court in Sterling, Colorado. Peralta and Raymond “Bobby" Roybal, 29, are charged with bombing the Fort Lupton police station on March 9, 1971. They will be tried separately; Roybal’s trial is set for March 26. The two defendants were UMAS students at the time of the bombing and were known for their "activism" concerning community affairs. They are charged with illegal use of explosives and unlawful destruction of property. The first charge carries a sentence of two years and the latter is a one to ten year sentence. Change of venue Although the bombing took place in Weld County, the location of the trial was changed to Fort Morgan County after Greeley District Judge Donald A. Carpenter disqualified himself. Judge Carpenter removed himself from the case last summer after defense attorneys moved for dismissal on the grounds that the judge was a racist and the defendants could not receive a fair trial. Friends and supporters of the defendants have established a defense committee in their behalf. They are seeking endorsements and financial support. They are also educating the public as to the extent of the racism present in Weld County. (See related letter in cartas section.) Berrigan agrees to help When he was in Boulder last week, Father Philip Berrigan agreed to participate on the legal defense committee. He was briefed on the case by Peralta and Rodolfo “Corky” -Gonzales. Berrigan gained national fame as one of the Catonsville Nine, he served three and a half years in federal prison for destroying draft files. He was in Boulder to participate in the Spirit Society conference sponsored by St. Thomas Aquinas Newman Center. “We’re not copping out on any level to Elmer’s or Bobby’s involvement as activists, ’ Gonzales told Berrigan. They are being used as scape goats because UMAS students were instrumental in embarrassing Weld County, and particularly. Fort Lupton officials, he explained. Berrigan was concerned that his involvement in the case might hurt the defendants, but Gonzales assured him that they had already been hurt by slanderous press coverage. "The press has already tried and convicted them,” Gonzales said. Police brutality Before the 1971-bombing, Fort Lupton had been the scene of many protests against the alleged police brutality against Chicanos. The late Richard Falcon and other UMAS students at the time documented the charges by researching the police files. They found that between June, 1968 and April, 1970, the Fort Lupton police made 468 arrests. Of this total, 327 were arrests of Chicanos, although Chicanos comprise only 25 percent of the city’s population.
During the protests just prior to the bombing, many UMAS students took part. Peralta served voluntarily as the internal chief oi security, and discipline in these marches. ■ The bombing caused between $5,000 and $40,000 damage, depending upon who you believe. The Fort Lupton Press reported in an article printed a week after the bombing that an estimated $5,000 damage was caused by the explosion. Yet both the Rocky Mountain News and the Denver Post have recently reported an estimated $40,000 damage. Investigators estimate that four or five sticks of dynamite were used in the bombing which took place at approximately 11 pm. A witness saw a man in a car speed away and the car was chased by police, but was not overtaken. The next day the car was found five miles west of Brighton. It too had been blown up. Peralta, owner of the car, had reported the car stolen earlier. Peralta and Roybal were arrested over a year after the bombing took place. Peralta was arrested in his mobile home in Boulder by sheriffs officers and Boulder police. Roybal was arrested in Salt Lake City, Utah, where he had gone looking for work. Yellow Press The press gave the arrests sensational coverage and were quick to announce that bond had been set at $100,000 each. Later when the bonds had been reduced to $5,000 property bonds, the press failed to report this. Before the arrests of the two defendants, the Fort Lupton had already verbally made a blanket indictment against the Chicano community when he said: “Town officials believe the bombing to be the work of outsiders who were attempting to keep the community stirred up, following recent articles in the Denver Post. The Police Department has received much criticism the last two years from Spanish Americans who claim discrimination and prejudice.” Name dropping After the arrests, District Attorney Robert Miller held a press conference in which he announced he had met with attorneys from the Justice Department who had flown in from Washington D.C., representatives of the Denver United States District Attorney’s office, agents from the Oklahoma City and Denver divisions of the Federal Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Department. After this flurry of namedropping he admitted that the “evidence is largely circumstantial.” Community Chicanos feel the base for the charge lies in the racism Weld County officials have demonstrated in the past.
