UMAS endorses tri-executive ticket
The UMAS general assembly endorsed the ASUC executive slate of Paul Boetcher, Patty Price and Jess Vigil by a near unanimous vote last Wednesday night. Ben Romero and Jim Sandoval, ASUC senatorial candidates on the ticket, also received UMAS approval. The ticket calls for a triexecutive—with each member appointing his own advisory staff. Boetcher told UMAS that the executive powers, such as vetos, would be exercised only when the three executives were in unanimous favor of such a move. The endorsement came after the UMAS students heard talks from several ASUC executive
hopefuls including Boetcher, Price and Vigil of the New Directions and Cliicano Coalition; Nora Danielson and Skip Ball of the Young Socialists Alliance and Ken Raffel, vice presidential candidate under Paul Steiger. Steiger was late for the meeting and was not permitted to speak because the discussion on endorsements had already closed. Dennis Mateski, another ASUC presidential candidate, could not be reached. Boetcher told the assembly he believes in Jess Vigil. "If UMAS refuses to give our ticket its endorsement and we still win, we ll appoint Jess anyway, he said.
Boetcher and Price assured UMAS that they wanted to form an alliance not only with Vigil, but with UMAS in general. They agreed that UMAS would reserve the right to fill Vigil's seat if he should vacate if or if UMAS deemed it necessary. Both Boetcher and Price cited past involvements in the Chicano struggle and vowed to continue their efforts. "We want UMAS to be part of the New Directions Coalition," they said. Danielson and Ball presented a platform which calls for open enrollment at the University, preferential hiring in all departments of the University, continued funding of EOP programs and free tuition. "We think it is important to raise issues which are unpopular like cops off campus." Ball said. When they were asked why there were no Chicanos on their ticket, Danielson said, "I guess there aren’t any Chicanos who agree with our ticket." Both Ball and Danielson added that if UMAS was to run a Chicano ticket they could support, they would withdraw from the election. Raffel said he and presidential candidate Steiger were part of the old McGovern organization. He said they wanted to convert ASUC into a ser-
vice government. They would like to attract students to ASI.UC in their fields of interest. He cited the establishment of a radio station as only one example.
