
Ramirez cleared of all charges in Crusade massacre
by Lenard Maestas

Denver — Luis Ramirez, arrested on March 17 during the "Saint Patricks’ Day 
Massacre” at the Crusade For Justice, was acquitted August 20 in District Court. The 
early morning attack by the Denver Police against members of the Crusade left 20 year 
old Luis “Junior” Martinez dead and at least 19 people injured and 36 arrested. Ramirez 
was arrested and charged with assaulting a police officer, which carries a 1 to 10
year sentence. He arrived at the scene about 3 a.m. to see how he could help. He saw 
detective Pete Dias kicking a man. Ramirez protested and told Diaz, “there’s no need 
for that, what’s the matter with you people?” Ramirez was then grabbed by Diaz and 
other officers who proceeded to beat him unmercifully. Diaz was overheard screaming, 
“Kill the son of a bitch." Ernesto Vigil, a member of the Crusade, said that the jury
examined photographs taken of Ramirez soon after his arrest. The gruesome pictures 
show that Ramirez was victim of blatant brutality. The photographs show Ramirez with a 
swollen face and a large gash on the top of his head. Vigil said the photos alone were 
enough evidence to prove innocence. The verdict did not surprise members of the 
Crusade. Rodolfo “Corky” Gonzales, head of the Crusade For Justice, said the young 
people who were shot, arrested and brutalized were provoked into resistance. “It was a ‘planned attack”, 
Gonzales said. The acquittal of Luis Ramirez is the latest in a series of court actions 
since the March 17 attack. Charges were dismissed against Charles Garcia during a 
preliminary hearing on May 4. Garcia was charged with assault, but the court ruled that 
they could not find sufficient evidence to bound him over for trial. Mario Vasquez, 
charged with three counts of assault, had his preliminary hearing on May 9. He was also 
charged with illegal use of explosives, but, this charge was dropped because at the time 
the explosion occurred, police were said to have used grenade launchers. The explosion 
therefore might have been the work of police. Vasquez is due to appear for
trial on Sept. 17. Ernesto Vigil, charged with illegal possession of a firearm and 
aggravated assault, is due to appear in District Court on Nov. 12. Since the attack, Vigil 
has been recovering from a gunshot wound in the back. On that horror-filled night, Luis 
A. Martinez was shot and killed by Patrolman Stephen Snyder, an explosion ripped out 
the wall and roof of an apartment house owned by the Crusade, and 36 persons were 
arrested or brutalized by Denver Police. Since then, no charges have been filed against 
Patrolman Snyder who still roams the streets. Despite objections by Crusade attorneys, 
demolition teams began destruction of the blast site soon after the explosion. Demolition 
carried with it evidence witnesses suspected would have put the blame on the Police.
