Cultural Center plans setA combined Chicano cultural center and residence hall may become a reality with the purchase of the Colonial and Colony Houses, two residence halls at 1162 and 1 146 12th Street. The proposed purchase, initiated by Quetzacoatl Inc. in conjunction with Hernandez and Associates of Denver, is awaiting approval by UMAS students. At the last general UMAS meeting the proposal was presented and the students voted in favor of the purchase. However, finalization of the contract is awaiting approval by UMAS members on or before August 28. Gary Archuleta, who has coordinated the purchase efforts with Hernandez and Associates, said that the concept of a Chicano Cultural House has been proposed a number of times by UMAS students. The original proposal was initiated by Pete Reyes and Sal Peralta, two former UMAS organization presidents. Presently the two residence halls are being cleaned and improved while rooms are being rented as they become available. While there are no provisions now for room and board, Archuleta plans to have the kitchen services working by the fall term. “We now have seven resident advisors and two other staff members working at the houses,” Archuleta said, "and for the fall term we’ll have a full-time cook. We plan to offer rates comparable to the University residence halls." Also being investigated now are plans to get credit for an academic program at the houses, in much the same manner as the Sewall Hall program and other experimental projects have been accredited. In addition, students will be encouraged to participate in cultural activities, such as Mexican dancing and artwork, including the painting of a mural on the walls of the houses depicting Chicano culture. Presently double and single rooms are being rented, with double rooms going for $45 a month and single rooms renting for $65 a month. As soon as provisions for board are complete, the rates will increase somewhat, but will remain in line with the low rates offered by the University residence halls.