UMAS, FLTF submit 72-73 budget requests
The UMAS organization and the Farm Labor Task Force have submitted proposed budgets to the ASUC Senate for the 1973-74 academic year, but do not know when the Senate will consider the requests. Included in the UMAS budget are provisions for work-study funding, general office expenses and funds for activities similar to the Fiesta de la Gente which was held last semester. The proposed budget is needed to “provide the total University community with information and activities from which they might better understand and participate with the Chicanos at the University. The proposed budget asks for $10,300 in comparison with the present allocation of $5,143.00. The additional funding will provide for the approximately 350 Chicano students who will be admitted to the University this summer under the UMASEOP Program and additional 100 Chicanos to be admitted in Fall 1973. This will necessitate the expanding of the UMAS services to accommodate approximately 450 additional students over their last budget request. The UMAS Farm Labor Task Force (FLTF) budget originally requested $3,981.15, an increase of more than twice the present budget of $1,794.00. However, according to Farm Labor Task Force spokesman Victor Gonzalez and Leonard Maestas. an estimated amount of $2,492.06 has been recommended by budget commissioner, Andy Singleton, for approval by the ASUC Senate. “With tha recommended budget, we feel we have gained an $698.06 increase, although we didn’t receive all that we requested,” Maestas said. Under the proposed budget, provisions call for monies to be allocated for two additional work study slots, general office expenditures, and operating expenses. Farm Labor Task spokesmen feel the increased proposed budget recommended by the budget commissioner is not enough. "We’re not going to settle for the recommended amount; we’re going to go before Senate with our original request of $3,981.15.”, Maestas said. "If we get our original request, we feel we can better inform the students and the community and better strengthen the farmworker’s struggle. Hopefully, we plan to get direct communication from California (UFW) headquarters to help us in directing our cause for the plight of the farmworker”, said Gonzalez. The Farm Labor Task Force is presently actively participating with UFW (United Farmworker Union) in the continuing boycott against Safeway stores, and have been successful in turning away approximately 2,000 Safeway shoppers from the Boulder area. The projected goal is 10,000.
