Work study jobs are in trouble

Whether the University administration was trying to surprise 35 work-study students and 
the 15 organizations the students work for, or if it was just plain incompetence, remains 
unclear. However, what began as rumor Wednesday, Oct. 3, developed into a full-scale 
emergency for ASUC-funded organizations by Thursday. The rumor was that work-
study students, who were employed by student fee-funded goups, would be transferred 
to new jobs. They were to receive notice Friday by memos attached to their paychecks 
and start their new jobs Monday. No attempt was made to notify the organizations 
involved. Student Employment Service Director Mabel Irwin verified the rumor as fact 
Oct. 4 at a meeting with several students. Irwin explained the University was violating 
Federal Work-Study Program guidelines by allowing workstudy students to work for 
student organizations. UMAS student Jose Ortega asked Irwin to postpone the transfers 
for two weeks. The organizations needed time to adjust to the situation and to research 
alternative ways to meet federal guidelines, Ortega said. Irwin granted them one week. 
At this point, contradictions and ambiguities came pouring out from students who had 
been told different things from various administrators. An amazing show of unity has surfaced, 
however, between many diverse segments of the student population, a kind of unity that has not 
appeared for many years. Organizations that pledged Tuesday night to “stick together" until the 
problem was resolved were: ASUC; Black Student Alliance; Women's Liberation 
Coalition; Farm Labor Task Force; Migrant Action Program, student organization; 
Associated Engineering Students; EcoCenter; UMAS; and Chicano Law Students, 
which is helping with legal research. Other organizations affected by the decision, but 
which were not present at Tuesday’s meeting are; Colorado Student Lobby; Clearing 
House; Student Bar Association; MACHO; Association of Foreign students, formerly 
Foreign Student Council; School of Business Board; Oyate; University Joint Boards; and 
The Coloradan. ASUC Tri-executive Jess Vigil said he thinks the administrations’ 
sudden decision to transfer the students into new jobs "stems from some sort of 
paranoia" about a federal audit being conducted at the University. But even if that was 
the motive, many people are unsatisfied with the explanation and many questions 
remain unanswered. Why this year and not Last year? Irwin said the Regional
Office of Education sent a report to her two years ago that stated the University might 
be violating federal work-study guidelines. But Irwin said that at the time, she did not 
realize student organizations were not considered departments of the University. She 
said she recently learned the fact that student organizations are independent of 
University control. If this is the case, why is the University administration "looking into 
and revising student fee distribution?" Vigil asked. Vice President for Student and 
Minority affairs James Corbridge said student fee monies belong to the Regents. 
University President Thieme said student organizations "are not the responsibility of the 
University or the federal government, but work-study is.” Boulder lawyer William Gray is 
now examining the legal definitions involved in this and other confusing aspects of the 
whole matter. Why weren’t the students and organizations informed sooner? The 
administration said they wanted to take care of it quickly, apparently before the auditors 
came. Administrators also said they did not forsee the hardships organizations would 
suffer without their work-study employees. Engineering student representative Sam 
Woodward responded first. "I think we’ll be willing to support the rest of the group," he 
said.

Now the organizations are striving for more time. A meeting between lawyer Gray and 
Corbridge was scheduled for Wednesday morning. The Black Law Students, an 
organization that does not have any work-study employees, has also agreed to help. 
Now the organizations arc striving to gain an extension on their deadline, which is 
today. Gray, the Chicano Law Students and the Black Law Students, an organization 
that volunteered its services even though it does not employ work-study students, are 
all researching the legality of the administrations move and federal guidelines. But the 
question that lurks in the back of some minds is perhaps the most difficult to answer: Is 
the University doing this as a means to destroy student organizations? UMAS secretary 
Judy Sandoval thinks the answer is yes. “It’s an attempt to stop the student 
organizations from becoming political," she said. She pointed out that the issue came up 
soon afte’r UMAS students demonstrated about the financial aid problems they have 
had with the administration. What can organizations do to retain their work-study 
students? Irwin said there are two alternatives. One is to incorporate as off-campus 
agencies and contract for the jobs, just as the city of Boulder and NCAR do. However, 
one stipulation is the organizations cannot be involved in political activities. The other 
choice is to find a University department to sponsor them. The students don’t see either as a 
viable solution. First, what she meant by "political" is subject to many interpretations. UMAS 
secretary Pat Sutton said the nature of UMAS is political and "we can’t disguise our activities.” 
Black Student Alliance reps said they were in the same position. Another problem with 
incorporating is whether the organizations could receive student-fee funding. Chicano 
Law Student Manuel Lopez said the Denver Center UMAS incorporated and could not 
receive student funds as a corporation. Again, legal interpretations vary and no one is 
certain whether Irwin's definitions are accurate. Departmental sponsorship would cause 
a loss of autonomy that none of the organizations want. In desperation, student 
organizations met Monday and set up a committee with a representative from each 
organization. The committee decided to meet the next evening. However, Tuesday 
afternoon several organizations said they had chosen one or the other of the 
alternatives Irwin presented. But that night Sutton said, "I thought we decided we are all 
in this together and that we were going to work as a unified whole."

