Aid not enough: students

Students unanimously agree to the inefficiency of the University financial aid offices' processing of their financial aid packets, says a poll conducted by the Financial Aid Committee of 121 students. In a recent survey regarding financial aid problems, students polled complained about the delay in receiving their financial aid monies due to understaffing problems at the financial aid office, loss of student records, insufficient funding, disorganization, jobs. The overwhelming majority of students also complained of persistent problems as: Financial aid is not sufficiently meeting the demands of the higher cost of living. Students don't have enough money to buy books and supplies, causing them to fall behind in their classes. Students don't have enough money to pay the high monthly rent. Students said they don't even have enough money in a household of roommates to buy enough food for one entire meal. Delay in receiving National Direct Student Loan (NDSL) increased percentage of NDSL's, etc. One student received a $1175 NDSL check because “by the time they worked on my packet, there were no more grants or work study monies left; I had everything turned in before school started, but some forms were lost.” Another student complained that her expected contribution from summer earnings was $250 when she was attending summer school. One other student said his parents were barely making enough money to eat and provide a roof over their heads.' Work Study jobs; 33 students indicated they have work study jobs, only 24 were happy with them. Fifty three students didn't qualify for work study because of financial need or class standing. The majority of freshmen students don't have work study, therefore their budget is supplemented with larger amounts of loan monies (NDSL). and smaller grant monies. Most all sophomores, juniors, and seniors who qualify complained that work study interferes with their studying time, causing them to fall behind in classes. Problems in receiving stipends; 26 students who qualified for stipends had problems getting them and missed classes waiting in line. Students have had to fill out the same forms more than once because they have been misplaced at the financial aid office.— Many students have left the University because of financial aid problems; they don’t have enough money to continue. “Students get tired of getting the runaround all the time, don't have enough money to live off of, so they quit school to find jobs,” one student said.