Rautenstraus says no action on Appenzeller

University Vice-President Roland C. Rautenstraus has told ASUC tri-exec. Jess Vigil 
that no disciplinary action will be taken against William Appenzeller, Recreation 
Department director. Rautenstraus had promised a complete investigation into charges 
against Appenzeller aired by Chicano students and staff at a meeting July 19 (see the 
July 27 El Diario for more information). After completing his investigation, Rautenstraus 
wrote Vigil two letters in which the Executive Vice-President explained his stance on 
Appenzeller. “Based upon a wide range of interviews and discussions with the people 
involved," Rautenstraus wrote, "I do not feel that the action you called for (Appenzellers’ 
termination) would be warranted." Yet Rautenstraus found some basis for the 
complaints, for he states “the concerns you and others have raised are receiving most 
serious attention." Rautenstraus’ letters make no reference to a letter Vigil received from 
Barbara Jones, Affirmative Action Officer for the University. Ms. Jones confirmed that 
"the position to which Peter Solomon was appointed was not posted as University 
Affirmative Action Policies require." Following the receipt of one letter from 
Rautenstraus on July 27, Vigil received a call from Rautenstraus in which
several new actions by the Recreation dept, were outlined. Vigil received the second 
letter, dated August 1, in which Rautenstraus amplified his mention of changes to be 
made in the Recreation department. The changes Rautenstraus proposed include 
several concrete actions such as: —All positions of employment including part-time 
positions will be advertised and posted. —With respect to administrative full-time 
positions in the recreation program, minority individuals are being urged to apply. —All 
methods of job assignments for employees will be reviewed to insure that no employee 
receives preferential assignments. —A more formal program will be established for 
employee training for jobs with additional responsibility. —Meetings will be held for all 
staff to discuss and understand the importance of their relationship with and effect on all 
people who use the facility. —A follow-up evaluation program will be established to 
determine the extent to which the changes in policy improve the operation of the 
Recreation Center. Vigil criticized the statement as a “cop-out, a pat on the back for 
Appenzeller." Vigil would not promise Rautenstraus any acceptance of the promises 
Rautenstraus made, but said the decision would be made by UMAS students.

