Avalos continues fight to walk againLast week Sam Avalos, an UMAS student and English teaching assistant for UMAS-EOP, underwent surgery as part of his continuing battle to regain the use of his legs. Sam's month long ordeal began when the truck he was driving left the road and rolled three times near Gallup, New Mexico. Two friends with Sam at the time, Dave Cator and Joe Matthews, received minor injuries in the crash. Sam was first taken to a hospital in Gallup, and on April 2 he was flown from Gallup to the Craig Rehabilitation Center in Denver, where he has since been receiving intensive care from some of the nation’s best doctors. Immediately after the wreck Sam recalls “coming to and finding I couldn’t move my body.” While Sam was at first paralized from his neck down, he has since improved to where he can feel pressure on his legs and can use both his arms. Last week’s surgery was an attempt to relieve pressure on nerves controlling Sam’s right hand. With the full use of both his right arm and hand, Sam could then work on regaining the use of his legs by exercising on parallel bars. The final results of the operation will not be known for some time, but hopes remain high that the surgery was a success. A number of students at the University are planning fund-raising activities for Sam, since his total medical expenses could run as high as $3O- - Although the Avalos’ did have a family plan insurance policy with Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Sam's coverage expired when he turned 19, and according to Sam’s brother Nick, “the company failed to notify us.” The Avalos had steadily paid for the insurance over a number of years, and it came as a surprise to the family when they found Sam was not covered. A BC/BS representative told the Avalos that the expiration date was “in the contract,” and BC/BS will not help with Sam’s expenses. Luckily, Sam was covered by University BC/BS, but that coverage is far from enough to pay the total bill.El Diario established a bank account where any contributions to help Sam can be sent. Thus far Sam’s friends have donated over $2OO, but much more is needed. The Sam Avalos fund was opened at the Coronado National Bank in Denver, one of the few totally Chicano owned banks in the nation. Contributions can be sent to: The Sam Avalos Fund c/o The Coronado National Bank 1400 Irving Denver, Colorado 80201 One fund-raising benefit for Sam is being carried out now. You can help, just by contacting any El Diario staff member for information on the event. £7 Diario’s address is the University Memorial Center, Room 416, Boulder, Colorado, 80302, and our phone number is 443-221 1, ext. 8836. We can all help a member of la familia in his hour of need.Sam Avalos