Jess Vigil meets the FBI

ASUC tri-exec. Jess Vigil met Wednesday with two agents of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation who said they were conducting an investigation into a possible assault 
against Congressman Henry B. Gonzales, D-Texas. The meeting was the latest in a 
series of events since Congressman Gonzales came to Boulder on August 8, and was 
allegedly subject to harassment and abuse when he was scheduled to give a lecture as 
part of the University's Summer Lecture Series. Vigil was advised of his rights by the 
two agents, but asked that his attorney be present while he was being questioned. As a 
result, no questions were asked at that time. On October 1 Vigil appeared before the 
Faculty Disciplinary Committee to face a variety of four faculty members without one witness for 
the defense being called. Vigil’s attorney, Don Pacheco of Denver, asked that the charges 
against Vigil be dropped after Cain’s witnesses failed to present any evidence to substantiate the 
charges. After a short recess, the FDC members ruled Vigil innocent. Four Chicanos have thus 
been charged with various crimes in the aftermath of Gonzales' visit to CU. One of the defendants, 
Jose Calderon, could possibly be deported if he is found guilty of the charges (see 
related story.) 

Also charged with Vigil and Calderon are Charles Koehler charges 
brought by William Cain, University Disciplinary Officer, (see page 10 for more 
information on the hearings.) Vigil was ruled innocent by and Francisco Luevano of Denver.  
Prosecution helps Vigil. In his opening remarks, Prosecutor Cain promised to produce evidence 
that showed Vigil was guilty of all charges against him. Pacheco began his remarks by saying Vigil 
had acted “with moderation and diplomacy,” and had not broken any laws, and had in fact helped avoid 
any incidents. University Artist Series Manager Mildred Coffin, Professor Conrad 
McBride, University Police Dept. Lt. David Evans, and UMC Student Night Manager J.C. 
Ancell Jr. were the prosecution witnesses, but each one’s testimony helped free Vigil 
(see page 10.) Vigil will appear in municipal court for pre-trial hearings on November 25.

