UMAS board greets new members

The five newly elected Board of Directors members were initiated in the Chicano governing process at the University in a three hour meeting last Monday nite. The five new members are Bill Lechuga, Hilda Lozano, Ruby Martinez, Felipe Roybal, and Tom Torres, (see picture.) Board members heard Jose Ortega, board chairman, air a request that staff members and faculty Chicanos be given input into the Board of Directors’ decisions. A heated debate followed Ortega’s statement. One board member asked if any faculty or staff members had ever requested to be given a seat on the board, but no one was sure that a request had been made. “How many times do you ever see faculty members or staff members on the picket line?” one board member asked. "Your criteria is irrelevant” another member told him, and said that staff members should have input into Board decisions. The motion to include faculty and staff representation was tabled until a later date. 

Colonial house 
A proposed change in meeting rooms for the Board of Directors was defeated. Archuleta suggested that future Board meetings be held at the Colonial House, but several board members said that UMAS should not be associated directly with the center. Archuleta answered a number of charges and accusations regarding the cultural center. He acknowledged that rent collection had been somewhat difficult in the past, but “residents met and made new policies and stipulations about rent payment.” “We’ve got the kitchen facilities close to a full operating capacity,” Archuleta said, “and we’ll soon be serving breakfast in addition to the lunch and dinner we’re now offering. 

UMC Cultural Center 
The Board heard a report from Jess Vigil and Dave Madrid about the proposed conversion of the University Memorial Center to a more culturally oriented center. “We’re currently researching how much the changes will cost,” Madrid said, and noted that since Chicanos are the largest minority group in numbers on campus “we will probably be allocated more room than other, smaller groups." Madrid and Vigil foresee such changes a sChicano murals in several lounge areas, more cultural activities, and more emphasis on people in the UMC. 

Food Drive 
Felipe Martinez, Farm Labor Task Force coordinator, requested UMAS support for a food drive for migrant workers who recently went on strike in the San Luis Valley in Colorado. “We’re asking people to take canned goods and other nonperishable items to the LIMAS office,” Martinez said, “and on Monday we’re going to take the food down to Center.” Martinez said the canned goods and non-perishable food items could be brought to the UMAS office, UMC 187. 

La Raza Unida 
Neva Romero told Board members of the proposed establishment of a chapter of La Raza Unida on the CU campus. Chapters exist in most counties in Colorado, but the city of Boulder has no chapter. Jose Calderon, contacted after the meeting, said the action would contribute to La the people through political activities. “We’re looking forward to seeing more UMAS participation in La Raza Unida,” Calderon said, and asked that UMAS establish a standing committee to work on the chapter. Jose Ortega said that two meetings had already taken place regarding the establishment of the chapter, and that community interest in the chapter was very high. 

Course evaluation 
Jess Vigil requested time at the next meeting for a presentation from Debbie Veals, who ASUC has appointed to coordinate the long-awaited ASUC course evaluation. “She’d like to get some. Chicano input into the evaluation,” Vigil said, and Board members voted to speak to Ms. Veals at the next meeting. 

Other business 
Jose Ortega brought up several other subjects, including the condemnation by UMAS of a federal bill called the Rodino Bill. This legislation would require employers to certify that people employers hire are not ‘illegal aliens.’ "Chicanos would have to sigh affidavits swearing they’re not aliens before an employer could hire them,” Ortega said, and called the bill “one of the worst pieces of racism I’ve ever seen.” The board also voted too officially recognize the Chicano Liberation Defense Committee that the Crusade for Justice has been sponsoring for some ti time. Other actions taken at the Monday night board meeting are discussed in other El Diario articles. Other actions taken at the Monday night board meeting are discussed in other EJ Diario articles.