Sanchez wins appeal

Former University MAP student, Brian Sanchez, who is currently serving a federal 
prison sentence for allegedly assaulting federal officers last year has won his appeal 
against the charges and has been remanded a new trial. Sanchez was arrested and 
convicted last year on two counts of assaulting, resisting, opposing, and interfering with 
federal officers while in their line of duty. However, Sanchez maintains that he was the 
one who was assaulted. The conviction stemmed from an incident last September in 
which Sanchez and a group of other people were passing through the Customs office 
and were allegedly harassed by federal officials while being cleared through Customs. 
Sanchez was arrested while advising other members being harassed, of their 
constitutional right to refrain from answering questions asked of them by the Customs 
inspectors. On July 26 of this year, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit 
reversed the district court’s decision on Sanchez’ conviction and remanded him a new 
trial. The circuit court reversed the district court’s decision of the conviction because of 
the district court’s error in permitting the prosecutor, Edward S. Marquez, Assistant U.S. 
Attorney from El Paso, Texas, to cross-examine Sanchez in regard to prior criminal 
activity, and because of the prejudicial character of the prosecutor (Marquez) argument 
to the jury. According to circuit court findings, Marquez' argument was inflammatory and 
seriously prejudicial; it was replete with racial and political overtones and repeatedly 
characterized and denounced Sanchez as a liar. The court found it reversible error for 
counsel (Marquez) to express his personal opinion or to make unwarranted inferences 
or insinuations calculated to prejudice the defendant. (Any count of reversible error is 
grounds for reversal of the lower court’s decision or dismissal). According to Esther 
Sanchez, Brian’s wife, he began serving his prison sentence on November 27, 1972, 
although appeal efforts had already begun at this time. Mrs. Sanchez also said plans for 
Brian’s release from federal authorities have not yet been finalized because the 
opponents of the case, the federal government, has fourteen days in
which to file a motion for an appeal of the circuit court’s decision of reversal. Today 
marks the fourteenth day since the court’s ruling. Any decisions concerning the case are 
expected to be finalized shortly. “A new trial won’t be expected for at least another 
month,” according to Mrs. Sanchez, although Brian plans to hire another well-known 
attorney, Warren Burnett, to represent him. Presently, an estimated $6,000 cost for 
attorney’s fees for the previous lawyer is being collected through various fund raising 
activities in support of Brian's case, a menudo and burrito benefit dinner has been 
scheduled for Friday night at the Colonial House on the Hill. On Sunday, August 12, a 
Huevos & Rancheros benefit breakfast has been planned at St. Thomas Aquinas 
Church.
Brian and Esther Sanchez.

