City hiring still racist

While the city of Boulder’s hiring of Chicanos has increased in maintenance and service divisions, upper echelon Chicanos are still few and far between. In a report authored by Phil Hernandez, Public Service Careers officer, breakdowns of staff hirings in some levels show no increase, and in fact some decreases, in Spanish-surnamed hiring. In the three top-level categories, professional, managerial, and technical, only three Chicanos are working for the city of Boulder, out of a total of 140 employees in those categories. Hernandez, director of the Public Service Careers program said the program is primarily designed to increase minority hirings in the lower echelon jobs, including protective services (police officers) and janitorial jobs. In these categories the city has shown “tremendous progress” Hernandez said. “However, I have said time and time again that hiring of minority people could be much better at the upper levels,” Hernandez said. The three Chicanos now working in the three upper categories are Hernandez, Terry Aragon, and Julian Atenico. An official at the city’s personnel office, Michael Patton, cited four problems in hiring more minority people. “First off, we have a small turnover in these positions,” Patton said, “so we seldom have an opportunity to fill city jobs.” “Secondly, Boulder has a relatively small minority population, and we have to recruit outside of town when openings do become available," Patton said. He cited the police department hiring as one example where “two city administrators recruited several Spanish-surnamed police officers.” “Also, there are always fewer applicants for the upper-level positions," Patton said, “and few minority people apply for the upper-level jobs.” Patton noted that qualifications for the upper-level city positions are quite stringent, and said the Public Service Careers program was intended to recruit “disadvantaged people for entry-level positions, not upper-level positions.” Patton said the city had been under no pressure to adopt an Affirmative Action Plan, but instead had voluntarily begun drawing up a plan. “We felt there was a need to formalize our plans, to draw up some concrete goals to work with,” Patton said. "All they’re doing is hiring Chicanos for the janitorial jobs," Jose Ortega, UMAS directors’ chairman said. Ortega stressed that the promises given were always greater than the actions accomplished. “If the city would make a real effort, not a token effort, to get Chicano input into city government, we wouldn’t have this problem now,” Ortega added. He called attention to the report Hernandez authored, which shows an increase of six slots in the officials and managers category, with no new Spanish-surnamed employees being hired. The UMAS Board of Directors will discuss the subject of city hiring in the near future. More investigations are currently being planned into city hiring, both by Board members and El Diario.