What’s going on at the Canon City pen?

You may have been following the recent flurry of events happening at the Colorado 
State Penitentiary at Canon City and wondered exactly what's going on over there. The 
events that are happening are finally casting light on the workings of that dark, evil 
place. The roots of the Canon City controversy are in the streets of every town in 
Colorado, where Chicanos are routinely harrassed, provoked, and finally arrested by 
police officers of the various Colorado communities. The process continues in the 
courts, where poorly-represented Chicanos are railroaded into local jails, reform 
schools, and finally into the Canon City penitentiary. Canon City is famous, or infamous, 
for its treatment of prisoners. Prisoners are not rehabilitated or is there even a show of 
attempting to help the pintos. Instead, both the prisoners and the prison staff know that 
anyone sent to Canon City is being punished, and the staff does its job well. In order to 
keep the prisoners docile and complacent under intolerable conditions, the prison staff 
must stop any sort of prisoner unity. One of the most well-known of the prisoner 
organizers is Jose Gaitan, who was instrumental in designing the Colorado Pinto 
Project as an alternative to the unworkable present system of corrections. Gaitan knows 
that an enlightened, unified group of prisoners can resist and oppose the inhumane 
treatment handed down by Canon City administrators. Those same administrators see 
Gaitan as a threat to their stability, as one who might make waves and upset the 
punishment system. Just a few months before Gaitan was to be released on parole, he 
was indicted by a grand jury for the murder of a prisoner who had been killed in the 
Canon City penitentiary two years before any charges were brought against anyone. 
The fact that he was charged with a crime while in the penitentiary was sufficient 
rationale for the parole board to deny Gaitan parole. Yet Gaitan and other prisoners who 
refused to give up and stop their efforts knew that the Canon City administrators were 
afraid of exposure to the public eye, for the administrators are corrupt and inefficient. 
After a long period of research and hard work, the prisoners were able to prove what they had known all 
along to be true. The pintos found that prison administrators were misusing funds and 
materials, but no one knew of this corruption. There followed some communications 
with several reporters from state newspapers, in particular a reporter from the Pueblo 
Star-Journal and the Denver Post. At a cladestine, quiet meeting, the prisoners 
presented the fruits of their research, and even showed the reporters prison financial 
records. When the reporters tried to take a thick book of records from the prison, a 
guard saw it and took it away from a reporter. The blow had been struck. The Den ver 
Post ran a series of articles based on the prisoners’ allegations, and Prison Warden 
Fred Wyse admitted to taking foodstuffs home and even said the prison staff had been 
doing it for years. Wyse was fired and the investigation proceeds, and other heads are 
rolling at Canon City. Yet the remaining prison administrators were not down yet. All of a 
sudden garbled, distorted reports of fights between groups of prisoners began to 
circulate in the same newspapers that had covered the Canon City corruption. Prison 
staff displayed large numbers of weapons allegedly taken from prisoners, and staff 
members talked of "getting tough with the prisoners." Jose Gaitan and the other 
insurgents are now paying for exposing the corrupt, illegal actions of the Canon City 
tyrants. Unless there comes a loud, sustained cry from the Colorado public, the 
prisoners will be severely, unjustly punished for having the courage to expose Wyse 
and his staff. Organized groups of citizens outside the prison walls can have a 
tremendous effect on what goes on inside the prison. The Colorado Pinto Project was 
designed to help the pintos overcome the conditions of Canon City, and to slow the 
return rate of released inmates to the prison. Working with the Colorado Pinto Project 
and through your own individual efforts can change the conditions at the Canon City 
penitentiary. We cannot allow their efforts to improve conditions at the prison to go to 
waste, nor allow them to be further punished for their courage.

