Financial Aid circa August 22, 1972

Memorandum TO: Mr. Mark Heffron FROM: Mr. Jerry Soliz SUBJECT: UMAS-EOP 

Financial Aid DATE: August 22, 1972 Evaluations, whatever they may be, are usually 
submitted when that which is being evaluated comes to an end and is hopefully 
preparing to begin again. After completing ten months in the financial aid office, I have 
gained a few pounds, a few white hairs, and have insubordinately conceived my own 
opinions regarding this office, assistant director of financial aids, in charge of UMAS—
EOP applicants. I now have a better understanding of the functions of financial aid and 
a better understanding of why my predecessor, Mr. Gerald Martinez resigned. With the 
increase in students signaling a marked increase in responsibilities, accompanied by a 
decrease in the amount of time available to tend to those responsibilities, this office is 
now failing to meet the needs of the student, and has developed into that of a “paper 
shuffling flunky”. We have not failed at all functions of this office. We gather data which 
UMAS-EOP will find necessary and helpful and we keep records and
manage to keep one foot in front of the other to keep from tripping. Those functions we 
are failing miserably are advisory services to the director of financial aid. We no longer 
have time to talk about the student and the new problems he may be facing and the 
allowances we may have to make in his financial aid package. This office is constantly 
accepting new applications, making out new folders, completing them, screening and 
post screening, changing two and three times oven but we never have time to notify the 
student of new regulations, the lack of proper documentation to complete his 
application. Instead we must wait until he visits the office. If he happens to be one of the 
lucky few we find time to counsel? it may be too late. Deadlines may have gone by or 
approaching and the student finds it impossible to comply with the regulations. And so 
the student proceeds to rant and rave, sprinkling his comments with four letter words 
and a “son-of-a-bitch” to spice it up and rightfully so. The student, just by chance, was 
planning his career and depending on our ... Now he must delay
his career from one to twelve months an unjust sentence. The student tried to call a 
number of times, but unfortunately, they happened to be the days we were not taking 
calls. The student visited a number of times, but unfortunately chose those days we 
could not visit with students. Counseling functions cannot be practiced adequately. A 
large portion of EOP students drop out of school or never return because of financial 
problems at home or on campus. A majority of those problems can be dealt with and 
solved so a large portion of those with financial problems need not leave the university. 
Many of those facing financial problems are shy or are fed up with visiting office, but 
some how muster-up enough courage to visit their counselor only to find he is not 
available. It’s the “last straw” and so they leave, never to return again. There are other 
counselors available but none that can relate to his problem or none that can relate to 
his skin pigment or nationality so the student thinks. And so we sadly fail the student 
again. We critically damage him and thoroughly defeat any ray of hope he may have 
had. And those who hope to see every minority student fail, now tall to their liberal Christian knees 
and fanatically pray asking that this one student never be allowed to recover. And so we chalk one 
up for the Christians liberal. 

And so we move on to our next failure. It is important that this office take part in 
recruiting along side the EOP admissions director. Counselors from every high school in 
the state continually damage our students by promising full financial aid packages. 
When the student arrives he finds the contrary and his alternative plans gone down the 
drain on an empty promise. Simultaneously we lose good relations and the support of 
parents around the state. Perhaps, the high school counselor needs counseling while 
admissions recruits. Parents can be approached in groups, helping them to understand 
the applications, encouraging them to provide the security a student needs while 
attending the university parental support. I do not expect support on this point. 
Strengthening an EOP program is alright but let’s not get carried away. I have no time to 
attend EOP staff meetings or professional financial aid meetings or read the student 
newspaper. I have only enough time to say good morning at 7:30 a.m. and im-
mediately begin work. And if I seem to be anti-social because I do not wander from 
office to office to discuss yesterdays or last night’s events, I apologize. I am only a little 
dazed and confused as to how I will handle the students today. Do I lock the door and 
put up a notice saying I am at an all day conference, or do I say I am at TB-1 
(Temporary Building No. 1) meeting with the UMASEOP staff, or do I’just tell them I 
have no time for today’s questions? We touch every students life everyday. We have an 
obligation to help him develop until the day he leaves us, and to write him off by hiding 
behind that infamous quote “lack of funds” is favoring student discouragement over 
student development! in student relations. I expect this letter to fall on deaf ears, I 
expect it to be filed away and never looked upon again, but even then I have succeeded 
on having this put on record that someone somewhere complained, made a plea for 
assistance, and offered a note of advice. Jerry Soliz Asst. Dir. Financial Aid 8/22/72

