Board meeting recap

During a three and a hall' hour meeting on Oct. I, UMAS Board members acted on and 
passed a proposal that gave top priority to the financial aid matter and temporarily 
suspended 12 committees so that their efforts could be channeled into the financial aid 
investigation. Students receiving financial aid have been going through the hassle of 
having to stand in long lines every month, only to find that their stipends or NDSL loans 
are not ready for them. These and many more reasons are why the Board has taken 
upon itself to suspend these committees and utilize the manpower for the investigation. 
Those committees that were not suspended are the Police Relations Comm., Chicano 
Defense Comm., Farm Labor Task Force, ASUC Elections Comm., Publications, and 
the ASUC Senators Comm. These committees were not suspended because Board 
members felt that the work that is presently being done by these committees cannot 
wait until a later date. Phil Hernandez invited The question arose on whether or not to 
invite Phil Hernandez, former UMAS president, to the next Board or Directors meeting. Hernandez is 
running for City Council under a non-partisan slate and is currently seeking endorsements from various 
organizations. Despite objections by some students, the Board members passed a 
motion to invite Hernandez to the next meeting so that he could state his position. 
Political education Patricia Sutton, Raza Unida organizer, here in Boulder, asked for an 
endorsement to a plan that would politicize the UMAS-EOP staff. Her plan was to hold 
regular classes with emphasis on political education. "The leaders aren't really 
politicized. With these classes they would learn the roles, purposes and goals of UMAS" 
Sutton said. Opposition came quickly when one student questioned whether or not there 
was room for Raza Unida politics and philosophy with UMAS. After a heated and 
lengthy debate, the Board members voted on and rejected Patricia Suttons’ proposal.

