Angel’s resignation demanded at Highlands

Members of the Chicano Students' Committee for Justice (CSCJ) of Highlands 
University in Las Vegas, N. M. took over an administration building Sept. 25 and 
demanded the resignation of the university's president, Frank Angel. As a result of their 
actions, 41 students were arrested by "Gestapo type state police...but the community 
showed its support by freeing all of the 41 students arrested,” according to a CSCJ 
press release. Although Angel is the first Chicano university president in the nation, 
CSCJ called him “a manipulator, deceivor, unprincipled, two-faced hipocrite." Highlands 
is located in the target area of northern New Mexico, which is 85 per cent Chicano and 
contains some of the poorest counties in the United States. Chicanos comprise 45 per 
cent of the student body and only one per cent of the faculty at Highlands. In 1970, 
student pressure forced out an Anglo university president. A screening committee of three faculty 
members and three students was established to find a new president. CSCJ and the two Chicano 
members of the screening committee selected Juan Aragon as their choice for 
president. However, the rest of the committee did not agree and Aragon was not 
included in the committee's final list of 10 candidates. Angel, who ranked eleventh, was 
placed on the list as a compromise to pacify the students' demand for a Chicano 
president. Meanwhile, the university’s board of regents illegally held secret meetings 
and chose an Anglo for president. When this was revealed by the only
Chicano regent on the board, the regents’ only recourse was to appoint Angel. Angel 
began meeting with students to try to work out differences with them. Soon he began 
sending representatives to talk with students and eventually the meetings were discontinued. 
Student attempts to meet directly with Angel were unsuccessful. CSCJ decided 
the only solution was to call for Angel’s resignation. Among many other complaints, the 
students accused Angel of responsibility for: all but killing a potentially viable Chicano studies 
program; firing four Chicano professors who were responsive to the students and the community; 
unjust treatment of Chicanos in their classes; and unfair hiring, firing and promotion of Chicano 
faculty members.

