Guadelupe eye reflection poses mystery
By Deborah Espinosa
This account of the mystery of the reflection in the eyes of Our Lady of Guadelupe was taken from a conversation with a woman who operates a small book store at the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadelupe near Mexico City. Since the account is taken from memory, it lacks many details, but I feel the evidence is strong enough to stand alone. La Virgin de Guadelupe, our Brown Madonna, and our symbol of hope for the poor, remains within La Raza as our patron of unity and strength against oppression. Whether we be Catholic or Protestant she is a familiar part of our heritage, and la Chicana she is the inspiration of every wife and mother to perpetuate our culture for all generations. Our belief in her is more than a religious one and our dedication is more than dutiful obedience. Whether or not she was created by the Spaniards for the mere purpose of converting the Indians should make little difference to us. She still remains as a dominant binding force of our people, therefore, she is important to us in more than just the religious sense alone. However, the fact that theologians, artists and historians today continue to dispute her authenticity, it should be known that new evidence in support of her existence was discovered in the late 1930’5. At the request of the Pope an artist was commissioned to copy the miraculous painting. While the artist was studying the unique color in the eyes of the original, he made an astonishing discovery. Upon close observation three minute figures could be detected in the pupil of the right eye. The scene depicts what the church believes to be the actual reproduction of Juan Diego's presentation of the roses to the bishop. The most distinct figure is believed to be that of Juan Diego himself. The profile of the bishop is also evident as he faces Diego and in between the two stands a soldier, clad in typical Conquestador armor. It was not until the late 1950’s that the Church made the discovery public. Since then many people have traveled to the Basilica near Mexico City not only to see the miracle of the painting, but to witness and learn more about the eye reflection. Among the many interested visitors was one American optometrist, who upon learning of the discovery was prompted to begin a study. His study entailed the photographing of a model’s eye. The photographs, when compared to the Virgin’s eye verified that the three figures were reflected in the same position as the objects were in studio photos. According to the optometrist’s report, it would have taken an expert like himself and the aid of sophisticated instruments to place the figures in their correct positions. This is due mostly to the curvature of the eye. The Church believes that the painting upon the cloak is not only a vision of the Virgin when she appeared to Juan, but her exact appearance as she watched Diego present the roses to the disbelieving bishops. We must remember that the painting exists on 400 year old cloth and shows no sign of deterioration. If we say an artist did indeed paint the portrait, where did he get such unusual paints? Why can’t his methods for producing such fabulous color be reproduced today? If we try to explain the figures in the pupil, then how was it possible for the artist to paint in such detail; the three figures must be magnified to be clearly seen If the details of the reflection are merely coincidental, why then do they remain sharp when the painting is enlarged through photography? If we assume that such an artist was aware of eye reflections how was it that he knew how to position each figure correctly without the aid of an optometrist whose study didn’t appear until 400 years later?
All of these questions remain to be answered by skeptics, but as she remains a mystery to so many, her stability and strength can be witnessed in every one of us as our unity continues to grow through the concept of la Familial How can anyone say she does not really exist?
