UFW increases effortsby Evelyn MartinezAfter nearly four months, the United Farmworkers Union (UFW) boycott against Safeway is now at an all time high, according to Richard Longoria, director of the Denver UFW Boycott office. The secondary boycott of Safeway is in conjunction with the nation-wide lettuce boycott which is nearing its third year. The Safeway boycott was announced just before Christmas and was started simultaneously m over 40 cities on January 6 of this year. “Lettuce is much harder to boycott than grapes, Longoria said, "and Safeway has never before reacted publicly as extremely as they have now.” We’re at an all time high in 'ubltc awareness," he said. According to Longoria, six to eight stores in the Denver area are being picketed daily, and pickets have also been set up in nearly every segment of Colorado, including southern Colorado, the Western Slope, and Cheyenne and Laramie, Wyoming. In the Boulder region alone, a coalition of University students and townspeople have turned away over 2000 people from Safeway stores since the boycott began. However, these numbers have slackened slightly as a result of some Safeway shoppers failure to return to Safeway after they've been turned away once. Also, because of a lack of interest and shortageof people willing to devote a few hours each Saturday to picket. At the campus level, according to Jess Vigil, ASUC executive, a resolution was introduced to the UMC Board last week stating that the UMC Food Services should honor the UFW boycott and buy only UFW lettuce, and that an alternative to UFW lettuce be leaf lettuce or none at all. After relatively little discussion, the resolution passed by acclamation (5 board members were present). The UFW is protesting Safeway's purchase of iceberg lettuce not harvested by UFW workers but workers of the Teamsters Union. Safeway is the largest purchaser of iceberg lettuce in the country and refuses to stock only UFW picked lettuce. Statistics indicate that there is a total of 2,318 chain stores across the country, and approximately $5.4 billion in sales. Safeway claims the conflict is a jurisdictional dispute between the Teamsters Union and the UFW; however, on December 29, 1972, the California Supreme Court ruled that Teamsters do not represent farmworkers, and that the conflict was not a jurisdictional dispute between the two unions. The UFW has been conducting a nation-wide primary boycott of iceberg (head) lettuce since May 1972 whennegotiations with the lettuce growers broke down. The aim of the primary boycott was to persuade consumers to stop eating non-union lettuce. According to Richard Longoria, the UFW is not only protesting Safeway’s refusal to cooperate in the lettuce boycott, but that the UFW is also "looking into the Safeway store itself’, specifically at meat and meat prices. A lawsuit against Safeway by plaintiffs closely associated with the UFW lettuce boycott has triggered a $l5O million countersuit by Safeway against the UFW in California. The first suit filed last month in Denver, like several filed in California, alleged that Safeway meat marked lean actually had the same fat content as regular beef. An investigation made by the Denver District Attorney's office confirmed these allegations last week. The Rocky Mountain News reported "Shortly after the Denver suit was filed, Safeway filed a $l5O million countersuit in California terming the charges brought by the farm workers ’’spurious” and assailing the union's motives and tactics. According to Jerry Cohen, legal counsel for UFW in Keene, Ca., “The boycott is legal” and the suit is a smokescreen to cover up their (Safeway’s) callous attitude toward the farmworkers. UFW sources indicate Safeway filed suit in California against Cesar Chavez and theUFW alleging “conspiracy, extortion, and harassment." The Colorado Springs Sun reported Safeway claimed the union (UFW) had filed a series of spurious lawsuits that contained allegations that the firm (Safeway) mislabeled meat products, sold insect infested cookies and cereals, favored large agricultural power and attempted to financially destroy the labor movement in the United States. Last Friday, April 6 a $33 million suit was filed in Denver against Safeway. Plaintiffs named in the suit were Richard Longoria, State Reps. Ruben Valdez, Betty Benevidez, and Annie Taylor, and Interfaith Committee to Aid the Farmworkers in addition to an independent group of housewives. The plaintiffs claim they found about 22 mislabeled samples from about 15 different Safeway stores. An example cited was that Safeway sold boneless rib steaks (normally about $2.42/lb as rib steaks for about $3.28/lb making an 80 to 90 cent profit through fraud. Several arrests and harassment of picketers have resulted in the past few weeks against picketers distributing leaflets and conversing with consumers in the Colorado Springs and Monte Vista areas. Twenty-one persons, including Richard Longoria,three Roman Catholic priests and four nuns were arrested in Colorado Springs on Saturday, March 24 on charges stemming from the Safeway boycott. The persons were charged with "unlawful use of property of another" on complaints signed by Safeway officials. The offense is similar to trespassing. Safeway officials claimed the picketers were stopping people at the door and blocking the door to the Safeway store while picketing. The Colorado Springs Police Chief Davis reported to the Colorado Springs Sun that the store manager signed a complaint only after picketers refused to leave Safeway property and continue the boycott on the public sidewalk. However, he later retracted his statements and said he had received a complaint from an anonymous caller who had provided that information. The picketers were freed on their own personal recognizance, according to Longoria. "We were well within our rights; we declared a moratorium on all arrests and everything came out on our favor,” Longoria said. He continued, "The police chief retracted his statements publicly." Arguments on motions to dismiss the cases against those arrested will be heard on April 17.