UMAS calls for Appenzeller’s resignation, hiring investigation

The UMAS board of directors has launched a multi-level investigation into University hiring practices after hiring irregularities in the recreation department were told to the Board last Monday. ASUC tri-executive Jess Vigil said he was approached by two Chicanos who complained of working conditions at the recreation center. “The Chicanos are being assigned all the dirt jobs, while their Anglo counterparts man the desk jobs,” Vigil said. The two students also objected to the fact that not one Chicano full time staff member was working in recreation. Vigil approached William Appenzeller, Recreation Director, and told him of the student complaints. Appenzeller agreed with Vigil’s charges, and said job assignments would be rotated so that everyone did the menial tasks, wages paid the Chicanos would be made equitable with Anglo staffers, and every effort would be made to hire more Chicano staffers. Yet at about the same time, the recreation coordinator for UMAS-EOP, Richard Castro, said he had applied for a job with the recreation department and had been told that he was “not qualified for the job.” Castro has a Masters degree in recreational activities and physical education, and felt the denial unjustified, especially in light of Appenzellers’ hiring of Peter Solomon, former ASUC president. “Appenzeller hired Solomon without posting the position, in direct violation of the University’s Affirmative Action Program,” Vigil said. When Vigil contacted Appenzeller about the hiring, Appenzeller said that Solomon’s employment would be terminated by July 15. Appenzeller later showed Vigil a copy of Solomon’s termination papers. (When contacted July 10 by El Diario about the termination, Solomon said he hadn’t received notification of the action.) Board hears complaints When Vigil finished his report, other members of the Board and students at the meeting told of other, similar cases of irregular hiring procedure, inequitable salary payment, and unfair assignment of job duties. "Two years ago when I worked for the recreation department, they had the Chicanos doing all the shit jobs like washing towels and shoveling snow,” Rudy Fernandez, an UMAS student, said. A MAP student who had previously worked for the recreation department said “all the Chicanos worked out in the snow during the winter time, while the Anglos worked inside." Several Chicano students met with Appenzeller at different times during the past two years, and remember his reasoning when asked why Chicanos weren’t being given coordinators jobs: “Chicanos just don’t produce” Appenzeller was quoted as saying. When Appenzeller did make promises to rectify the job assignment situation, he failed to make any changes, the students said. Since Board members felt that Appenzeller had had sufficient time to change conditions at the recreation center if he wanted to, the Board voted to investigate department records fully and to call for Appenzeller's resignation. Chicanos began relating other instances involving minority group hiring at the University. What Affirmative Action? Although the University was ordered by the department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) to submit a plan for a workable affirmative action program over a year ago, minority hiring is still nowhere near HEW goals (see the June 29 El Diario and the July 10th Colorado Daily for more details.) Statistics from a newsletter distributed by Barbara Jones, Affirmative Action officer at the University, show that only six minority men and one minority woman were hired out of 52 new faculty members for the ‘73-74 school year. “The University is continuing its racist policies -in hiring," Vigil said, "and we’ve just touched the tip of the iceberg." El Diario contacted Mrs. Jones two weeks ago and asked for a breakdown of minority employment at the University, including who was working where and for what salary. “We requested such a breakdown almost a year ago,” Mrs. Jones said, “but Personnel has not given us one yet." When asked how she could formulate goals for affirmative action without knowing what the situation is now, Mrs. Jones had no reply. Members of the Board will be investigating University hiring practices for as far back as personnel records go. All of the student & staff complaints about hiring, job assignments, and other matters will be investigated by the Board. Your complaints can be submitted to UMAS.