Sanchez Continues Appeal Attempt
by Jose Calderon
Editor's note: The following is an account of Brian Sanchez' case written by Jose Calderon. It has been edited for length, but we feel it will help the readers better understand Brian's situation. Brian’s wife Esther visited him in prison over the holidays and she said he is doing well and is in good spirits. He has been given permission to teach a teatro and communications class at the prison. Esther said she has been notified that the offices of Sen. Floyd Haskell and Rep. Pat Schroeder are looking into Brian’s case. Also, Jose Calderon has filed the original complaint Brian was prevented from Jiting against the immigration authorities.
Fund raising activities are still under way to help defray the costs of the appeal and to post appeal bond. Persons interested in helping are asked to call 442-2081. You may also write to Brian at: Brian Paul Sanchez, Box 1000, No. 84958, Anthony, New Mexico Texas 88021.
Brian Sanchez, a Chicano student and member of La Raza Unida in Colorado, tried to exercise his constitutional rights against two federal immigration officers on September 2, 1972, and found himself arrested, jailed, and convicted on two counts of assaulting a federal officer. Presently, Brian Sanchez is in jail for three years as a result of a “quick" political trial in which federal officers lied to a jury that did not include one Chicano. Ten witnesses who were with Brian on the night of September 2, 1972, testified that Gene R. Barth, an inspector with the Department of Agriculture, and James B. Stewart, U.S. Customs inspector, are guilty of assault, not Brian Sanchez. The two officials filed assault charges against Sanchez, as was previously reported in El Diario (Nov. 17, 1972 issue). The officials claimed Brian had threatened them with a bottle of liquor he was carrying. A third official who was off balance and fell when he was helping another official carry Brian to the police car also filed an assault charge. Brian was not convicted on this last charge.
In the court room the immigration officials lied. One of the “Hispano” officials claimed that the incident was a pre-planned demonstration by the members of La Raza Unida. When questioned as to how he knew it was a demonstration, he answered that there were forty people and they were all wearing black arm bands. There were only eleven people in Brian’s group — and they were wearing black arm bands to mourn the death of Ricardo Falcon. When asked about his experiences with previous demonstrations, the “Hispano” noted his experience with demonstrations in Crystal City, Texas, where he was an agent. Crystal City is known
nationally for its major political victories under La Raza Unida Party. La Raza Unida chairman Jose Angel Guiterrez resides and organizes there. Maria Arellano, one of the witnesses for the defense, testified in court that Brian Sanchez did not have a liquor bottle when the incident occurred. According to Arellano, Sanchez had handed her the bottle when they were crossing the bridge. Both of the immigration officials, however, testified that Brian had threatened them with a liquor bottle. The judge prejudiced the jury by keeping all of the Chicano witnesses locked in the court room until the jury had safely gone home because he was afraid of “violence.” He made statements such as “This court room will not allow any kind of violence.” The district attorney repeatably brought up Ramsey Muniz, Machismo, Chicanismo, Richardo Falcon, and Frank Anaya. He told the jurors in his closing statements that Sanchez had tried to deceive them by shaving his beard and cutting his hair. It should be noted that Sanchez’s lawyers had advised him that “the jurors in Texas did not look favorably on long hair” and that “witnesses should cut their hair if they were willing to be as clean cut as possible.” During cross examination, defense witness Esther Sanchez, wife of the defendant, was asked why the group was wearing black arm bands. “In memory of Richardo Falcon,” she said. “Is he the one killed in New Mexico or Juarez?” the d : strict attorney asked, referring to the deaths of Ricardo Falcon in Orogrande and Frank Anaya in Juraez, Mexico.
Sanchez was denied his sixth amendment right when the judge disallowed a motion for continuance before the trial began. Armandares, who was Brian’s chief counsel, filed a motion for continuance for three reasons: In the first place, the essential defense witnesses lived out of town, and the lawyer had not had a chance to meet with them. Secondly, Armandares had just been appointed chief counsel in the case and was not yet familiar enough with the case to present a satisfactory defense. Finally, many .of the defense witnesses were active in pre-election activities (the trial was to begin Nov. 8, one day after the ’72 elections) and could not be expected in El Paso until the day of the trial. The judge denied the continuance with a statement to the effect that he had heard that everything would be done to continue the case, but he would not allow a continuance. On November sixth chief counsel Armandares became ill and was hospitalized. Cocounsel Briones filed another motion for a continuance, because he had not yet had time to review the case or prepare a defense, and he was also too inexperienced to properly represent Sanchez. Again the judge refused a continuance and appointed Briones, who had not yet been admitted to the bar, as defense counsel. Briones went to court without proper preparation and having only met defense witnesses two hours before the trial began. After his conviction, Sanchez was transferred from an El Paso jail to La Tuna prison where he was kept in isolation for two days because prison officials believed he was David Sanchez, former National Chairman of the Brown Berets.
