Safeway boycott continues
Jose Ortega, supporter of the United Farm Workers Union and one of the organizers of the Safeway picketline, told El Diario his group has turned away over I 300 Safeway shoppers since they begin picketing Jan. 6. "The greatest effect of the boycott," Ortega said, "is that we are informing the people of the plight of the farmworker." "Although we may only turn away 300 people on a Saturday, we give away over 2,500 leaflets," he said. Dean Howell, manager of the Safeway store at 2798 Arapahoe, told El Diario that he had received complaints from customers about picketers using foul language. Ortega stressed that the boycott is "non-violent" and "that includes verbal abuse." The Boulder Lettuce Boycott Committee does not condone verbal abuse," he said. "If we get complaints about a person,, we tell him about it and if the complaints continue, we ask him to leave," he said. The Safeway management has been discouraging picketers from working in the parking lots, but Ortega said he plans to begin working in the lots next weekend. "It is easier to turn a customer away when he hasn't left his car we're just more effective there," one picketer said. "Legally, picketers are within their rights to be in Safeway’s parking lots," Dave Moore of the Chicano Law Students told El Diario. "I’ve talked with an assistant city attorney and checked the city ordinances, we only have to be careful not to obstruct traffic, he said. Howell agreed the picketers could legally work the parking lots, but added, "We (he and Ortega) had a gentleman's agreement that the picketers would stay out of the parking lots." "We haven't been in the lots because of the hazardous conditions due to the snow and because most of our picketers are inexperienced," Ortega said. Ortega urged supporters of the boycott to write to Safeway. "Managers must forward all written complaints." he said. Write: Safeway Stores. Inc., 4th and Jackson Streets, P.O. Box 660 Oakland, Calif. 94660. or Safeway, 2798 Arapahoe, Boulder, Colo. 80302. In Denver, boycott supporters report they have turned away over 4,200 Safeway customers. Chicanos from CUDC held a demonstration at one Safeway store with a teatro. picketers and a free band. Some of the Safeway stores are countering the boycott with a propaganda sheet allegedly put out by the Farm Bureau. The leaflet entitled the "Lettuce Story," claims farmworkers get $6.45 an hour; make $10-12,000annually, and only work 36 hours a week.
