Governor's meeting ‘Slap in the face'

After the meeting with Governor Vanderhoof on November 2 concerning the Financial Aid Crisis, which in my opinion was just another whitewash and more important, a slap in the face, not only to UMAS (United Mexican American Students) but to all minority organizations on the Boulder Campus, a few questions arose in my mind. It was obvious from the meeting that the Governor is under the assumption that our government is founded on Monarchy and Dictatorship rather than democracy. The Governor stated that “No one demands anything of me." The fact that he is a tool of the people and was put into office by the people must have slipped his mind. Furthermore, we have “requested” action be taken time and time again and the crisis still remains. The mere fact that it took the taking over of an office to gain his attention proves that the time for making requests is over, it is now time to make demands and take action. If the Governor would have given us an hour of his time, as he promised, instead of having us removed by the police after only 15 minutes he would have realized this. Evidently the Governor doesn't feel minorities have any rights at all. which confirms my suspicions about John Vanderhoof. It is a fact that the minority programs at the University of Colorado are facing 1.4 million dollars in unmet need. As a result, students are unable to pay rent, purchase books or buy food. When confronted with this the Governor simply stated that he has seen more hungry days then we have days in our lives. I say to

the Governor. “Bull”, if he had he would realize just how serious the problem is. We have taken the issue as far as we can take it but to no avail, it is now time to make a decision. Are we going to continue to discuss the issue, only to have insensitive administrators continue to pacify us or are we going to take action. In my opinion the time for discussion has come to an end. it is now time to move. Enough is enough. Mike Carreras Chairman United Mexican American Students Board of Directors