NoticiasHuerta to speak Three women, all who have made an outstanding contribution to her specific field of interest and represent only a few of the women who are active and articulate in their various struggles, will be featured guest speakers on campus in April. Delores Huerta, today’s leading Chicana in her struggle for farmworkers and her involvement with Cesar Chavez and the United Farmworker Union' (UFW) will speak here Tuesday, April 10, at 8:00 p.m. in Macky Auditorium. Delores is being sponsored by the Cultural Events Board, (CEB) in conjunction with United Mexican American Students (UMAS), Chicano Law Students Association, and Womens’ Liberation Coalition. Eye Examinations Complete eye examinations are now available free of charge to minority students. For information, contact Dolores Montoya at T.B. I, Room 211, ext. 8316.Una Mano Journeymen Plumbers or Electricians are needed to volunteer their skills at the Raza Unida Headquarters, Fort Lupton. A City Ordinance has restricted any work on the premises to journeymen, and both funds and supplies are limited. Donations, electrical wire, sheet rock or plumbing pipes can be presented to Lee Sandoval or Paul Sandoval at the Raza Unida Hq. Fort Lupton, Colorado Tele. No. 857-2390 Maternity Assistance Chicanas expecting a new addition to the family should know that pre-natal, delivery, and post-natal care are now available for a total cost of $25.00. Tarzan Honor, Administrative Annex (Willard) 180, ext. 8091, has more information on the package.Carreras The City of Lakewood, an Equal opportunity Employer, has the following positions available. SUMMER PART-TIME The City is beginning its recruitment of part-time youth to work in its summer recreation programs. There are a variety of positions open, including cashiers, playground leaders, recreation leaders, swim instructors and locker room attendants. Pay will depend upon position program will begin about June 15. There will be approximately sixty (60) positions open. Apply: Personnel Office 7801 W. 16th Avenue Lakewood, Colorado 80215 Watchale Selection of the jury for Elmer Peralta was postponed to August 13,1973. Defense motions for a change of venue from Fort Morgan County to Denver County to ensure a fair trial was given as one of the reasons for the postponement. The second reason for the continuance was that defense attorneys were granted time to investigate witnesses for the prosecution. Raymund Roybals trial continues to remain set for the date of March 26, 1973. Attend and continue your support of the watchful eye on the judicial system and out Brothers. Financial Aid! All Chicano EOP students interested in applying for financial aid for summer school and next year should pick up their financial aid applications NOW at the Financial Aid Office, Willard Hall, No. 269. The deadline for applications is April 1. According to Jerry Soliz, there will be some work study and NDSL funds available on a limited basis for the summer session. Students will be notified of their summer school awards in early June.Larasa Workshop LARASA is holding a workshop this month at the C.U. Medical Center in Denver, Colorado. All Chicanos are invited to attend, especially if you are a science major. Topics on the agenda for the day include: minority programs in the C.U. Medical Center financial aid and the Medical School educational needs of the Spanish-surnamed requirements at the College Level others Invitations and further information can be picked up from Carol R. Sanchez, N.C.H.O. coordinator, at TB-1 or call 447-4621. Lunch will be served at the Medical Center at no cost. The workshop will start at 9:00 a.m. and continue through 4:00. There will be breaks and lunch. Hope to see all you Chicanos that have any questions about your future in a Medical career. Business Students From a fledgling organization first organized in May of 1972, the Chicano Business Students Association has grown until seven chapters exist in Colorado. The association is mainly concerned with several primary goals: recruiting more Chicano business students, helping these students with a cohesive, working organization, and participating in projects with the Chicano communities. According to Dan Vigil, secretary/treasurer of CBSA, the organization is now mounting a recruitment drive. Prebusiness and business students interested in working with CBSA can contact Dan or other CBSA officers at the Business Building, room 149, or can call ext. 6181. Changing Addresses? UMAS-EOP students should notify T.B. I of any address changes during the year. Students planning to move should call ext. 8316.C.S.U. A position for a Graduate Teaching Assistant in French and Spanish has been made available at Colorado State University. Tuition waiver will be granted for continuing education plus $2,205 in salary for 9 months. For more information contact Joey Henderson at ext. 8358 or U.M.C. 328. Cooking Bob Cooke, from Alternatives, Inc., will issue the sermon at all masses Sunday, March 25th, at the St. Thomas Aquinas Chapel. The topic of the sermon Sunday will be ’’Pro-life on the abortion issue.” Sister Betty Edl said various speakers will present the sermon during Lent and will be raising issues of Christian responsibility and Christian involvement. For more information, attend Mass. Maestros Joe Sandoval representing the Salt Lake Public School system will be recruiting Chicano teachers April 1. The need is in all levels of elementary through secondary schools and all areas except history. For more information call Joey Henderson U.M.C. Rm. 328 or ext. 8538. Poudre Schools. The Chicano Educational Commission of Fort Collins, Colorado, is seeking qualified, innovative educators who are sensitive to the MexicanAmerican Community. They need bilingual-bicultural teachers for a bilingual program. They also need Chicano educators, teachers, counselors, and administrators to work in areas other than Bilingual Education. MAIL REQUEST APPLICATION TO: