La Chicana barefoot and pregnantBy Becky MarrujoHow many Chicanas today stop and think about the various labels that have been used to designate their role and status Furthermore, how many of us seriously think about the validity and accuracy of those definitional labels and ways of changing them I doubt that many of us do, even though we are aware that labels have been used to foster oppression; labels have been used at various times to suppress minority groups labels function as the foundation for a myriad of stereotypic notions that are attributed to an oppressed minority. La Chicana has her share of labels attached to her role and status. They are largely the result of traditional ways of looking at La Chicana, without taking into account the role changes the Chicana is undergoing today. Most authors who have made reference to the Mexican American woman have validated their views and research on the basis of a few cases or “personal knowledge of an intuitive nature." Needless to say, most authors who have commented on the MexicanAmerican woman to date have been men although some position papers are being written by Chicanas today. Some specific examples of the types of descriptions that have been printed about us are the following: "a wife and mother is ideally submissive, unworldy and chaste . . . she devotes herself to her family and the consistent idealized portrait one receives of Mexican American mothers is that of a suffering padaciendo woman ... In La Raza, the older order the younger, and the men the women” from Across the Tracks by Arthur Rubel. Although the reference is specifically to the Mexican American mothers, readers of such “words of wisdom” tend to generalize that statement to include all Mexican American women. One reason for the generalization is that most of us are viewed, by Chicanos and others, in two roles, mother and future mother. Both roles carry the same connotation, and if the definition read is not applicable at the moment, for the reader, it certainly will be valid at some future time. Or consider the writings ofOctavio Paz, who states that the Mexican not MexicanAmerican woman is a dark, secret and passive being who is molded by the actions of men. True, Octavio Paz writes about the Mexican, not Mexican American women, but in a sense he sets the stage for a generalization by readers by focusing his first chapter in the Labyrinth of Solitude on a Mexican American experience The Pachucho and Other Extremes. He therefore deals with Mexican American themes while limiting his discussion to Mexican men and women, which seems to be a contradiction. Generalizations prompted by the written word are the basis for verbal and written stereotypic notions of La Chicana. Labels, specifically stereotypic labels, are means of oppression. They have been used by the oppressor to convince both observers and the oppressed of their general worthlessness. In the United States, labels such as greasy, lazy, shiftless, criminal and dirty have been stereotypic labels for Mexican Americans. Some Mexican Americans mayhave accepted these stereotypic labels and still others applied that label to “all other Mexican Americans” but themselves. Today the Chicano has shed and denied the validity of most stereotypic labels ascribed to them by Anglo authors, which served to oppress them. However, La Chicana is still subject to stereotypic labels ascribed by Anglo, Mexican and Mexican American authors. Clearly then, she has two choices in the near future, which are that of acceptance of the labels or denial of the labels. If she accepts the stereotypic labels, she reifies the concepts that they embody. She, in essence, may act as the passive, dependent, secret, dark and mysterious being that authors say she is. An example of the types of Chicanas that so reify those concepts are those that make statements like “Let the men in the movement take the leadership roles, I feel more protected by them," or other Chicanas whose behavior is super helpless and dependent, which implies that she is incapable of being aggressive or independent.If La Chicana refuses to accept the stereotypic label, that act of denial asserts that she is engaging in “self definition of her role.” Denial means that she is moving toward escape from traditional stereotypic labels that are potentially oppressive. It also means she recognizes the error of those definitional roles, which is applying a generalized role to all Chicanas on the basis of a few Chicanas experience without mentioning other roles in which Chicanas engage. The self definition of her role further implies that she lays down the foundation for social interactions with Chicanos, other Chicanas, and institutions on her grounds or according to her rules. Personally, I feel that Chicanas are ready to define our roles, as a collectivity, both within the Chicano movement, the Chicano communities, and the world at large. The sooner we engage in this definition, the sooner we will be able to rid ourselves of oppressive labels and stereotypes which signify that all of us should be at home "barefoot and pregnant.”