Latin American view
La Migra hassles foreign students
by Yveline Jowett
Editor’s note: The] following article is written by a student from Chile. She is the contributing editor on Latin American affairs to El Diario. We feel she can offer a unique perspective on world affairs to our readers. Chicanos throughout Aztlan are aware of how la Migra, or the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has been misused to harass us and our brothers from Mexico. Brian Sanchez, a former MAP student is presently serving time in a Federal prison in connection with an immigration official's harassment. Supporters of the UFW know the immigration department has teamed with growers to undermine organizing efforts of the union. We feel foreign students who are refused basic rights are fighting our common enemy. In this fight we are unified. Zahraie is an Iranian student who dares to speak up for his own rights on a case of deportation, and is courageous to denounce the government of Iran. Babak Zahraie causes consternation. Babak Zahraie has the support of the C.U. Foreign Student Council and of the ASUC Senate. The U.S. Inmigration and Naturalization Service INS detained Zahraie on three charges: he entered the U.S. from Canada without the appropriate documents, he is not a bona-fide or fulltime student; and he is a subversive. "Later” said Zahraie at a talk he gave on Campus two weeks ago, "I was accused of conspiracy against the Iranian government, but this charge was soon dropped.” “But these ‘technical’ charges” Zahraie said, “were the Catch 22. Truth is what I'm talking about. Facts on the Iranian reality. And the INS doesn’t like this so it takes me up on ‘technicalities’. They said the Shah of Iran is Nixon’s friend!!” A member of the anti-war movement, coordinator of the Tuition Rollback Coalition, former president of the Foreign Student Council FSC at the University of Washington and editor of the FSC newspaper ’lnternational’, Zahraie has not concealed facts on the Iranian government. He denounces crude facts on one of the Third World countries. Zahraie’s quests are: Do foreign students have the right to express their ideas freely in this country? Do U.S. citizens have the right of access to these ideas? Two hundred Arabs are now waiting to be deported in Los Angeles, six months ago 142 foreign students of all nationalities were arrested in Detroit, nine Vietnamese students who spoke against the war were deported, according to Zahraie. “In the last years the INS has stepped up its attacks on politically outspoken students" he said “A local talk show is enough for deportation. The INS uses its ’discretion’ in judging whether the actions of a foreign student are ‘aggravating’.” Many foreign students don’t know what to do because the letter they receive says ‘Leave next week’ and underneath it is written ‘There is no appeal to this order’. Legally it only means you cannot appeal to the person who signed the letter.” "My case is a test and will show foreign students they have the right to stand up for their civil liberties. And for this, I’m ready to go to the Supreme Court.” C.U. Foreign Student Adviser Gene Smith said “The rules of the INS state that being an unjustified non-fulltime student may be sufficient grounds for terminating a foreign student’s stay in the U.S.” Smith pointed out that freedom of speech is inherent to all foreign students as well as to all U.S. citizens. "What we’ve got to do is to protect that right, and fight
against the harassment to foreign students caused by the use of their rights." “We’re for his cause, even though he did commit certain infractions,” Smith said. "I do think that had Zahraie been a quiet student, he might have had no trouble.” To the charges submitted by the INS Zahraie said: over 100 students cross the Seattle-Vancouver border and come back with their student IDs. I was pinned down because of doing this. what can the INS know about academic matters and determine what is a full-time student. in the search carried out in my apartment a poster of Che Guevara and books of Lenin were found. This is considered to be “subversive”. “I’m an intellectual, a student. There is no question of overthrowing the Iranian government, that is not my business. We don’t advise the government on its policies. We do however protest against what violates the rights of the Iranian people, against repression. Bertrand Russell said at one time that the Iranian government is the second most repressive in the world." Zahraie’s brother also faced charges for defending the case. Zahraie’s request for a permanent residency was rejected.
He made this petition when he married a U.S. citizen. A law that condemns to ten years prison any Iranian student outside Iran who speaks against his government was passed four years ago, according to Zahraie. After Zahraie’s talk, his case was discussed in the Foreign Student Council of this university. Full support for his cause was undertaken and the foreign student Senator Gerhard Brand’s vote "no” at the ASUC Senate was cleared. "I had distorted information when I voted and I saw a tacit support to the Young Socialist Alliance, organization that sponsored Zahraie, had I voted affirmatively. I should have abstained.”
