Centro Legal Aids PoorUniversity Chicano Law Students are currently active in their third summer as legal advisors for Centro Legal as part of the Legal Aid and Defender Program. According to Chicano Law Student Association Chairman, Willie Garibay, "Centro Legal is an autonomous organization of Chicano Law Students affiliated with the Legal Aid and Defender program of the University of Colorado School of Law.Ó Fourteen Chicano law students will be active with Centro Legal in northernColorado communities including Boulder, Brighton, Longmont, Lafayette, Loveland, Ft. Collins, and possibly Ft. Lupton. The main office of Centro Legal is located at the Longmont Community Action Center. The student lawyers will represent clients in a misdemeanor, traffic cases, juvenile proceedings, divorces, debtor-creditor hassles, and other civil actions. They will also be available for advice in such matters as Social Security, Welfare-food stamps, and health benefits an individual may be entitled to. ÒClients whose cases are represented through the Legal Aid program must meet indigency requirements as established by OEO,Ó Garibay said. He continued, "Although, Centro Legal is primarily directed towards serving the Chicano community, Centro Legal has in the past taken all cases which meet the indigency requirements." The only charge for an individual who qualifies is for filing fees. ÒAlthough the student lawyers can represent clients in the courtroom, they cannot handle felony cases, or fee generating cases over $300,Ó Garibay said. In addition to handling Legal Aid cases, Centro Legal will also be active in community projects such as teaching classes concerning health and welfare rights. However, the type of program that Legal Aid will be involved in will depend on the needs of the individual community. Centro Legal will also coordinate efforts with the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund (MALDEF) in investigating police harassment in the communities, such as Lafayette. Persons seeking legal advice may contact the Centro Legal at the Longmont Community Center at 772-0103. University students may leave a message for Willie Garibay or Larry Rodriguez at the Legal Aid office, 443-2211, Ext. 8126, or 444-5483.