UMAS, FLTF, MACHO plan activitiesby Evelyn MartinezThe UMAS organization has progressed in nearly all aspects this semester according to Jose Ortega, UMAS Board of Directors Chairman. UMAS is currently formulating plans for the purchase of the Colonial House on the hill to house continuing UMAS students as well as to provide the local Chicano community with a cultural center. Proposed plans for the purchase of the Colonial House would involve a contract with Hernandez and Associates and the Boulder County Economic Development Corporation, although other alternatives have been proposed. “If the development corporation gets any profits from the venture, the profits will be put back into the community to continue social programs that are being defunded by OEO.” In addition, the purchase of the Colonial House would help the poor people of Boulder County; act as a cultural wares outlet, provide a cafeteria specializing in Chicano food, rental of office space, base forlocal students ballet folklore group, and a community center for student residents. Under current plans, the Colonial would operate somewhat like the university dorms, except that it would remain open during vacations and offer Chicano food, although additional kitchen and laundry facilities would be provided. These provisions would be offered to students at the cost of SI 25 per month, as opposed to $134 dorm costs. The rent for each individual student would be prepaid through the university a semester in advance. However, it is important that students who wish to live there next year make a definite commitment now. A liaison committee has been formed with the UMAS Board and Senate representatives who are acting to establish and improve communications between the student organization, the CU Administration, Chicano faculty, and UMAS-EOP. Farm Labor Task Force The Farm Labor Task Force(FLTF) is currently continuing a headstrong picket against Safeway in efforts to help UFW farmworkers. According to Victor Gonzales, FLTF Chairman, picketers have been successful in turning away more than 3000 shoppers from both Boulder Safeway stores. The 3000th shopper turned away was awarded with a cake (See related picture) Gonzales said, "We are starting to organize pickets on weekdays; we’d like to picket everyday if we could get enough support." "We are asking for voluntary assistance of all students and others receptive to the plight of the farmworker to come out and help picket," he said. Gonzales said, "As workers for Cesar Chavez, if we happen to lose this large battle between the poor and the capitalists, we'll lose a struggle for the farmworker." “We’ll destroy something that the worker has been dreaming of," he said. According to Gonzales, the projected goal of FLTF is to turn away approximately10,000 shoppers from Safeway within a few months. The picketing of Safeway will continue everyday this summer. The FTLF has been instrumental in establishing communication ties nationwide as well as locally. Gonzales said over 800 McGovern supporters have responded to FLTF appeals to contact boycott offices in their areas and work with them. Macho The Mexican-American Correctional-Help-Organization (MACHO) has been active in recruitment efforts with the University Office of Admissions in recruiting ex-offenders through the Pinto Program. According to Ron Quintana, MACHO coordinator, letters have been sent to the Pinto’s, Colorado State Penitentiary LADS, Denver Juvenile Court, and various women’s correctional institutions. MACHO has also been scheduling entertainment from various student groups and community groups to entertain the prisoners at the ColoradoState Penitentiary in Canyon City. Next year MACHO plans to have a counseling component for all ex-offenders, which would include other nationalities as well as Chicanos. A supportive services program for ex-offenders who are interested in helping out other Pintos and ex-offenders is also being planned. According to Quintana, "MACHO is working on setting up an inter-agency coordination with all correctional and rehabilitative agencies in order to have a supportive services program. This would include guidance, placement and treatment facilities for the exoffenders. Through funding of $75 from ASUC, a small library for ex-offenders will be available in the MACHO office, UMC 416. Through coordinated efforts of Chicano Law Students Association and other student law groups and legal agencies, referral services and legal advising for ex-offenders may be available.