Doing Uncle Sam’s Dirty Work

The heart of the counterrevolution in Latin America is the military government of Brazil. 
Within the last few years it has extended its geopolitical control over Bolivia, whose 
fascist government it helped to power in 1971, and over the dictatorship of General 
Alfredo Stroessner in Paraguay. The military government of Uruguay openly 
acknowledges its role as a "semi-colony” of Brazil. These four countries, plus the 
terrorist administration of Guatemala were the first to offer diplomatic recognition to the 
military junta in Chile. The coup in Chile was also the signal for increased repression 
inside the other ‘axis’ countries, particularly Bolivia. Eight days after the coup
overthrew the popularly elected government of Salvador Allende, the military head of the 
Bolivian government, Hugo Banzer, sent a planeload of medicine and supplies “to aid 
the sister nation of Chile." He was officially thanked by the fascist junta's leader, 
General Pinochet, who greeted “the aid given to the people of Chile at this time of great 
historic decision.” Two weeks after the coup in Chile, the Banzer government 
discovered a “Marxist plot” involving Bolivian labor leaders. Eighty-nine trade union 
leaders were arrested and repression was stepped up against the Bolivian workers, 
according to charges by the semi-underground Central Obrera Boliviana (the COB, 
trade union federation). On Sept. 25 bank and insurance company workers shut down 
their companies in protest against the arrest of their union leader Mario Paz Soldan. All 
financial activity was paralyzed in the capital city of La Paz for 72 hours. They were 
backed up by 30,000 factory workers in all parts of the country. Two days later the 
government deported Paz Soldan to Paraguay. The Bolivian Interior Minister, Colonel 
Walter Castro Avendano, charged the Allende government with being one of the forces 
behind the “plot”, and added that Argentian was also somehow involved. Banzer will fly 
to Washington on October 15 to meet with President Nixon. They will undoubtedly talk 
about renewing relations with the Chilean Junta. The only roadblock for Banzer was the 
unfortunate publication in Bolivia of some writings by Pinochet in which he suggested 
that Bolivia be carved up among its neighbors. Such are the contradictions among gangsters. 
Another indication of the increased repression against 
progressive forces is the stepped up campaign against the Uruguayan Communist 
Party. The CP daily newspaper EL POPULAR, was shut down for 20 issues for 
“offenses against the nation,” charges stemming primarily from its wide coverage of the 
military coup in Chile. It is expected that both the newspaper and the Party may soon be 
outlawed. In September at the 10th Conference of American Army Chiefs in Caracas, 
Uruguayan General Hugo Chiappe declared that Latin America’s “main enemy” was 
“international communism.” This opinion was repeated in a recent meeting of Uruguay’s 
National Security Council, military chiefs and President Bordaberry, to analyze “the 
situation arising from the latest events in South America.” It recommended that the 
executive study those international mechanisms that would make possible “the defeat of 
Marxist interference in the internal affairs of the Latin American countries.” This is the 
day of the jackals in Latain Day of the Jackals This is the day of the jackals in Latin 
America. As Juan Peron, Argentina's popular leader, said the day after the coup, “They 
must be having a fiesta in Washington.” But the spreading of the green stain from Brazil 
is not inevitable nor irresistable. Bolivia, Uruguay and Chile have powerful popular 
movements as well as fascist governments and these render their juntas’ grasp less 
firm than it may seem. Weakest of all is the grip of the junta in Chile, which faces a 
massive opposition and the broadest international solidarity since the Vietnamese War.

