Ramirez developing Chicano’ test

Professor Albert Ramirez of the Psychology Department is developing a test aimed at accurately measuring the intelligence of Chicanos, for some Anglo psychologists have been trying to prove that Chicanos and Blacks are genetically inferior in intelligence to their Anglo peers. Professor Ramirez said that his test, still in the experimental stage, will demonstrate that testing procedures and test content have important effects on how intelligent a person is judged. “I administered the test to a group of Anglo and Chicano students." Ramirez said, “with half the test in Spanish, half in English. While the Anglo students scored in the 60’s (out of a possible 150),'Chicanos scored in the 100's." Ramirez noted similar attempts to make intelligence tests more reflective of a persons true mental abilities, and cited the Black Intelligence Test for Cultural Homogeneity (BITCH). Blacks did notably better on this test, with its emphasis on Black culture, than did Anglo students. What is intelligence? Intelligence tests have been controversial for a long time, and became even more so after Arthur Jensen, an obscure Berkeley professor, published a study in 1969 His theory: intelligence, Jensen said, was determined by genetics rather than by environment.

Jensen’s theory reasserted an ages-old belief that a person's race determined intelligence. The modern theory states that environment and chance determine how far a person progressed in developing his or her abilities. Blacks who did poorly on intelligence tests. Jensen said, performed so because they just didn’t have it. and not because of environmental blocks (poor schools, chaotic family life, educator discrimination. etc.) Jensen’s theory was echoed and expanded on by Harvard Professor Richard Herrnstein. who went so far as to call for an end to programs designed to eliminate environmentally-caused intelligence differences. Herrnstein testified to Congressional committees that money was being wasted on these education programs, when instead Blacks and Chicanos should be taught to accept the differences and the ‘obvious’ implications of Jensen’s theory. A cry went up from other racists who called for sterilization of those deemed less intelligent than the master race. An equally and even louder cry was voiced by educators and psychologists who said that Jensen and Herrnstein were full of shit. Daniels to the rescue Those proponents of Jensen's theory suffered a severe lambasting in the October issue of Harper's magazine, where author Norman Daniles examines the study done by Jensen and the resultant glee of white racists, and then destroys Jensen's statements. Daniels intensely studied all of Jensen’s procedures, and found a number of weaknesses and lies. Whithout going too far into Daniels’ article (The article is entitled “The Smart White Man's Burden," and appeared in Harper's magazine in the October, 1973 issue), one Jensen conclusion Daniels took issue with was the measurement of intelligence. Daniels contends intelligence is not an easily measured trait such as height, or weight, but

is instead varied according to what criteria are used to judge intelligence. what time in life the test is administered, etc. The validity of intelligence tests rests solely on how well the test measures intelligence in life, not in solely academic terms. IQ tests tend to measure how well a person has assimilated and adapted himself to the majority society. The standards used in the tests are the standards of the WASP society. How then, do we measure intelligence? Professor Ramirez feels that if tests are used, they must be changed to accommodate different cultural environments. A number of other factors figure into the validity of IQ tests. For one, even the person administering the test is a subject of controversy. A study done of the performance of children given tests showed that if the person administering the test is of the same race as the one who answered the questions, he tends to do better. For example, if a Black administrator gives a test to a Black student, the Black student tends to do better than he would if a white administrator gave the test. Also, the type of test given has an important effect on how the tested person does. Studies done on minority-group elementary students show that if students are told they are taking a test in the traditional manner, they tend to freeze up and perform poorly. For a long time, minorities have been excluded from colleges and universities; a lot of this can be attributed to the one-sided findings of Jensen and the testing procedures and content that have been adopted by Educators and psychologists since time immemorial. It is just recently that minorities have been able to enter into colleges and universities in large numbers. The theories of the inimitable Jensen and others like him who have been “Nursed" in “White oriented” institutions are finally being refuted by vast numbers of "Educated" minority groups.