Whadya do Saturday?
The following letter is my personal opinion and is in no way meant to reflect upon or condemn the views and actions of others. The Spirit of the Chicano movement strikes in strange ways. On February 10, 1973, I was in a University van sitting back, taking life easy. I was with a group of Chicanos headed for Lake Eldora ski area. As we neared our destination the Spirit of the Chicano movement flooded my mind with many thoughts. Here I was headed for fun in the cold and snow while my brother and sisters, in that very same coldness were back in Boulder preparing the Safeway pickets. I began to question my reasons for spending this Saturday entertaining my own interests. After all, I never had the opportunity to go skiing and besides my week had been long and slow, so I deserved a little fun. However my mind kept taking me back to those people picketing Safeway and the battle against this oppressor. Maybe without realizing it, I was being slowly corrupted by this society’s not so pleasurable pleasures. After all it was my false need on this particular Saturday for these pleasures that separated me from the Safeway pickets and the Chicano movement. I tried to justify these false needs by saying, “Well this is part of the movement because it will shock a lot of the White population on the slopes, to see all these beautiful Chicanos and Chicanas skiing on slopes that belonged to our forefathers." However this poor justification did not hold up too long. 
I was quick to realize that a Farmworkers victory over Safeway would be a greater shock to the whole American population. So the only thing left was to admit to myself that I had acted in selfish manner on this Saturday. I came to the following conclusion after looking back to the ski trip and my past experience with the Safeway pickets. It was more fun and a better rush turning away potential Safeway customers than sliding and falling down the side of a mountain. 
The worst thing about the whole situation was the sad fact about the pickets being called off that Saturday due to lack of support, physical support which I as an individual could have offered. 
After discussing my feelings with another person, he stated “What’s past is past so what can be done about it now?” In a sense this person was right but because of that Saturday I became aware of Brown conscience developing within me. As long as my people are battling oppression, I must also be in thick of that battle. Kenny Chavez UMAS Feb. 16, 1973
