Growers buy houses

Imagine Colorado growers working in conjunction with the state government to purchase housing for the migrant farmworkers who seasonally work in nearby farming communities. Sounds amazing, doesn’t it? Well, there’s more here than meets the eye. The growers formed a ‘nonprofit’ corporation three weeks ago called the Platte Valley Growers Association. The association members put up half the $106,000 the university was asking for 22 quonset huts and six Butler buildings, while the Colorado division of housing put up the other $53,000. The buildings had previously been used as student housing. We all know what a deplorable state most migrant housing is in, so this purchase seems a step in the right direction. However, according to Joe Lucero, director of the Colorado Rural Housing Development Corporation, the growers were actually involved in the deal at a very late date. “We’d been waiting for years to purchase those buildings,” Lucero said, “but the growers stepped in and got them.” Lucero told james Fresquez, state housing director, that the University was finally prepared to sell the outdated buildings, and Lucero wanted state help in purchasing the buildings. Fresquez said the state would provide half the $106,000 the university wanted for the buildings, but the Rural Housing Development Corp., would have to provide the other $53,000. “Where could we get that kind of money?” Lucero asked. By this time word about the housing had gotten around the Brighton-Adams County area, and the vultures began to move in. Adams County Commissioners coordinated the search for funds to purchase the housing. Local growers responded by forming the Growers Association, and had the $53,000 in a few days. In five years the grower! will have control of the housing, and in ten years the growers will have title to the buildings. As landlords and owners, the growers will be able to, and are even expected to, charge the migrants for the use of the housing. “We expect the growers to charge for the upkeep of the buildings,” Hal Knott of the state housing division said, “but we won’t have any control over the housing after ten years.” Fees for the upkeep of the buildings would be subtracted from the migrants’ earnings, and the migrants could end up owing the growers money at the end of the harvesting season. In addition, the growers could use the housing for illegal aliens, with all of this sponsored by state funds and taxpayers’ money. "The state officials wanted to keep the migrants away from other Chicanos,” Lucero said, “they don't want the migrants to learn about Cesar Chavez, the lettuce boycott, or any ’radical' causes.” “We’ll be keeping a close watch on the housing, though,” Lucero said, “so I don’t think they’ll get away with anything."
