Fr. Lara, barrio priest

The mariachi trumpet blares, sounding the beginning of mass. And from the back of the crowded Church, a small procession of strumming guitar players and singing parishioners slowly make their way down the center aisle. Following the small procession, Father Joseph Lara moves.towards the altar. His vestment is one of red burlap. A black eagle- the symbol of the struggling farmworkers, a symbol of the poor-adorns the center of the vestment. His sermon is one of love love of people, love of community, and the need for action-social action that will lead to better lives for the poor, the impoverished and the victimized. These have become familiar sights and sounds en Iglesia De Nuestra Sra. De Guadalupe, a predominantly Chicane) parish in Denver's lower northside. Until two and a half years ago. La lglcsia Guadalupana was without a resident priest. Priests from St. Cajetan’s were sent daily to Our Lady of Guadalupe to administer needed services. Recognizing the urgent spiritual and social needs of a rapidly changing, increasingly Chicano, community- Father Lara rented a small four room house near La Iglesia Guadalupana in 1971. Things began to happen. Youth oriented programs were initiated. Cultural relevance was injected into the services of the Church. Church attendance grew. La Iglesia Guadalupana has become the focal point of cultural, religious, and social activity in lower north Denver. Father Lara has emerged a controversial figure in the community particularly the religious community. His open involvement in community affairs and in Church reform has made the Catholic Bureaucratic Leaders fell uncomfortable. But changes within the church tire not made by men of timid nature. However, the 34 year old priest and community spiritual leader, is a strong man. He has withstood the criticisms of the Catholic Bureaucracy. He has stood up to and withstood the wild punches of an enraged Gene DiManna, city councilman whose district included Nuestra Sra. De Guadalupe parish. In the summer of 1971, after police under the command of Eugene DiManna assaulted the Chicano youth at La Raza Park, Fr. Lara, and north Denver Parents walked the area for several days maintaining survalance on the police patroling the area and reassuring the community safety. These are the reasons the Chicano priest and spiritual leader has won the love and respect of his parishioners and community. To his people he is not controversial, he is lighting for a better life for them and their children something too few people are willing to do.