Will a Chicano replace Olson?

After a prolonged controversy involving members of the Boulder Human Relations 
Commission and the citys’ Human Resources Department, I-es Olson, Human 
Resources Director, has resigned. Olson, who had directed Human Resources since 
the department was first begun, resigned in what many see as a result of the battle 
between the HRD and the HRC. The Human Relations Commission was established by 
a city council ordinance to investigate charges of discrimination due to sex, race, age, 
etc. Human Resources, on the other hand, was initiated by former city manager Ted 
Tedesco and had job duties which sometimes overlapped the HRCs duties. Tensions 
between Human Resources and several members of the Human Relations Commission 
rose as the commission became involved in several controversial issues, such as the 
United Farm Workers’ boycott of head lettuce.
The Commission voted to endorse and support the lettuce boycott, and drew some flak 
from the ultraconservative Boulder Daily Camera, Boulder’s answer to lobotomy. 
Several commission members approached Olson and Terry Belton, who heads the 
Human Rights Division of Human Resources, and accused them of stalling of 
discrimination complaints. This action was primarily responsible for the resignation of 
two other members of the commission, Chairman Barbara Jones and Vice-chairman 
Euvaldo Valdez, who cited the other board members "irresponsible actions." When 
Chairman Jones and Vice-chairman Valdez resigned, the excrement hit the air-
conditioners at the municipal building. After city council listened to the conflicting 
parties, council members voted to dissolve the Human Relations Commission, and set 
up a committee to study the problem. What was the price of Victory?

While council’s action at first seemed to be a victory for Olson, several council members 
expressed dissatisfaction with Olson and Belton. Even so, Olson’s resignation came as 
a surprise to almost everyone involved. Olson’s resignation opens the door for the 
admission of a new directive, and there is widespread hope that a minority-group 
person will be selected for the position. “The position encompasses a wide range of job 
duties, from day-care centers to programs for the elderly,” Fuller said, and said the 
director should be “flexible in regard to community needs.” “What we’re looking for is the 
perfect, albeit impossible, person,” City councilman Tim Fuller said. Fuller described the 
ideal director as “someone with wide community support who will not be suspectible to 
any special-interest group pressure.” Phil Hernandez, who heads the citys’ Public 
Service Careers program, said the Human Resources Director should be a minority-group 
person and preferably a Chicano. “Any person selected for that position will be 
pressured by varying factions in the community, and we don’t have enough Chicanos in 
city government positions” Hernandez said. Since the Human Resources Dept, deals 
with all segments of the community, and especially emphasizes social programs, "we 
will be pushing for a Chicano or Chicana in the position,” Hernandez said. Hernandez’ 
views are shared by Euvaldo Valdez, who is helping draw up the enabling ordinance for 
the Human Resources Department. Valdez cited three reasons the new director should 
be a Chicano. “First, Chicanos comprise the largest minority group in Boulder, both city 
and county,” Valdez said. Valdez agreed with Hernandez in that “the city can’t divorce 
itself from Boulder county," which has larger Chicano population than the city.
“Second, there are no Chicanos or Chicanas working for Human Resources now,” 
Valdez said. (The Human Resources Dept, was the subject of a complaint filed Feb. 13 
with the Colorado Civil Rights Commission by Pete Reyes, a former UMAS organization 
president. The complaint states that although all applicants for the Human Rights 
Director position were substantially equal in qualifications, the selection panel chose 
Terry Belton, an Anglo male. The Civil Rights Commission has yet to rule on the 
complaint.) “Finally, few of the citys' department heads are Chicano, and the city has 
said it is willing to correct the situation," Valdez said. He plans to press for a Chicano 
Human Resources Director. Appointed by Twitched as intermin director of Human 
Resources was Melba Shepard, who used to head the youth services bureau for the 
city. Shepard said that a Chicano Human Resources Director was “a great idea."

