Former UMAS President
‘Racism’ charge filed
In a complaint filed February 13 with the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, Pete Reyes, a former UMAS president, charged the city of Boulder with job discrimination. Reyes, along with three other applicants, applied for the newly established city post of Director of the Office of Human Rights. The director will investigate charges of discrimination in Boulder, and will decide whether there is a basis for legal action. Reyes contends that he was refused the position for racial reasons, since the job was awarded to a “white Anglo-Saxon male, when we all met the minimal qualifications for the job.” The selection panel for the position consisted of Les Olson, a city administrator, Barbara Jones, director of the CU Affirmative Action Program, and Euvaldo Valdez, vice-chairman of the boulder Human Relations Commission. Les Olson wrote Reyes a letter explaining the panel's decision, and said that “all candidates (for the job) had law degrees and therefore were substantially equivalent in this strength needed for the position.” The panel members had told Reyes that a license to practice law was not necessary. However, Olson states in his letter to Reyes that the panel members did give great importance to having a license to practice law. Euvaldo Valdez, while not saying who he voted for, said he is “behind Reyes all the way,” and feels Reyes is “equally qualified for the job.” Valdez also said, however, “I don’t feel I have to justify my actions even to my Chicano brothers.” Reyes says Valdez did not back him for the job. “If he had,” Reyes said, “he would have threatened to resign his position to protest the panel’s decision, just as I’ve had to put it all on the line before for other Chicanos.” Reyes is contending that his "background, education and experience” are sufficient qualification for the job. In addition, Reyes recently graduated from the CU Law School. However, Miss Jones said that the man selected for the job had several years more experience than did any of the other applicants. "The criteria they (the selection panel) used were arbitrary and unrelated to the job, ” Reyes said, “and the panel members were more interested in the presentation of ideas to solve problems than in actually solving the problems.” “I have had five years experience in the civil rights movement and human relations," Reyes said, "and I’ve got more to offer than just nice plans and paper programs.”
