Bicultural school at Whittier elementary

by Evelyn Martinez

Whittier Elementary School in Boulder is currently the scene of a bicultural/bi-educational program for educationally deprived children, the Title I program. The program began June 25 and runs for five weeks through August 3, during which time students attend the session from 9:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. daily. The federally-funded Title 1 program, since last year, was designed to help educationally deprived children, regardless of their ethnic background. This year there are other Title 1 programs in Lafayette and Louisville. In the Boulder area, the Title 1 staff at Whittier School are focusing on reading and language development. Richard Garcia, Title 1 Director at Whittier, stressed, “The emphasis is on a bilingual/bicultural program; it is not a tool to teach kids English as it is through the federal concept; our philosophy is to use the bilingual/bicultural program to teach the children Spanish," Garcia said. The Whittier program has a total enrollment of 120 students, most of them Chicano. Another Title 1 program in Lafayette has a total of 40 students enrolled. The children under Title 1 are recipients of the FollowThrough program, which is currently being phased out through the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO). FollowThrough was originally a continuance to the Head Start Program. Under the Title 1 program, the children receive a different kind of education than they would normally receive during the academic year. Cultural aspects which were ignored during the regular year are concentrated on to a greater extent during the five-week session. Goals Some other goals of the program are to instill in all students a positive self-image and pride in their cultural heritage, stress the significance of contributions of their language and culture to form a multi-cultural society. The program also concentrates on more effective communication and increased awareness in the home-school relationship in order to encourage greater parental involvement in the learning process. “Parents need to learn more about the total operation of the school district,” Garcia said. A staff of nearly 70 people work with the children at Whittier, with most of the staff nonprofessionals. Garcia said, “The non-professional people working for the program have more flexibility with the children; they are not conditioned to the system.” Some of the instructors are university students from the Migrant Action Program (MAP) and UMAS. The students are grouped into age groups of 4-5 years old, 6-7 years, 8-9 years, and 10-12 years old. Students were observed singing cultural songs, preparing cultural foods, learning cultural games, and depicting various aspects of the multi-cultural history of Colorado through drama, drawings, and paintings. Each classroom was decorated to represent many areas of the Chicano movement and farmworkers struggle, cultural displays, and educational aids. Lunch is served to the students in which the menu consists of nutritious Chicano food, such as a burrito, which is supplemented with vegetables and milk. Since the 4-5 year olds have a short attention span, they were kept occupied with educational and cultural games, painting, and coloring. The 6-7 year olds can be found busily occupying themselves in four different areas of the room, each area monitored by an instructor. They are involved in making pinatas, planting beans, singing songs such as “De Colores” and “Las Mananitas”, and learning the alphabet in Spanish. In one corner of the room the children gather to listen to an instructor tell them about various aspects of their cultural heritage. Although most of the teaching is taught in both English and Spanish, the emphasis is on Spanish. The 8-9 year olds class was observed comparing notes on their language assignments. While others were busy reading, coloring, some were making plaster figures representing Chicano emblems, such as an eagle, which is symbolic of the farmworker struggle. Others were drawing pictures expressing what they saw on recent field trips. A teatro depicting a Chicano confronted with a legal problem, was dramatized in a court scene by children from the 10-12 year old group.

Pictures of well known Chicanos as Benito Juarez, Cuatemoc, Francisco Villa, Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla, and Josepha Ortiz de Dominguez are hung on bulletin boards in the 10-12 year olds classroom. 

The children were assigned to research these famous people through libraries. Almost all the students have an opportunity to try their talent at photography. A darkroom is set up in the school to teach those interested the process of developing photos. Several mothers were busy in the parents room making projects for fund raising activities to support the Title 1 program. Some mothers were beginning to make costumes to be worn by some of the children in their annual entry in the city’s Pow Wow parade. Last years entry, “Boycott Lettuce” took first place.