Gonzales hurt La Raza

What most of the public saw as a confrontation between unreasonable Chicanos and 
Congressman Henry B. Gonzales had its roots in a meeting held before the public 
discussion was to begin. While at first the meeting between Jose Ortega, Jose 
Calderon, Jess Vigil and Congressman Gonzales was without incident, the change 
began which resulted in the confrontation. Jose Calderon told Gonzales his opinion of 
politicians: "Any politician elected in this system has to make a series of promises. He 
makes promises to the poor people, and to the rich people; to the growers, and then to 
the farmworkers; and to all the groups in his district.” “At the top of the promise pyramid 
you have the special interest groups, those who can do much to influence the politician. 
And the least likely to be represented by the politician are those with the least amount of 
pressure, the poor.” At this point Congressman Gonzales interrupted Calderon and 
called him "an ignorant, bald-faced liar” plus another string of insults. Calderon waited 
until Gonzales had finished his tirade, and said, “You haven't let me finish, and you 
haven’t talked to the issues I'm bringing up.” “Your concept of the system is different 
from mine," Gonzales said. He went on to relate an analogy to the Chicano movement: 
“There was an extremely brilliant young Chicana who joined the Communist Party when 
it was much like being a hippy to do so. Did she accomplish anything? No, she was run 
out of town.” Calderon said “Are you telling me that the system you work in has done 
anything for the oppressed in Texas or Colorado? Those people are still poor, and your 
promises to them go unfulfilled.” Several students asked Gonzales to change the topic of 
his speech, but Gonzales said “I was invited here by another group, and they suggested 
what I should talk about. If you had invited me here, I would speak on what you want to 
hear." Thus the stage was set for the confrontation that nite. Any real discussion and 
dialogue ended when the Gonzales' insults began.

