Sign of the timesStreaking what is it all about, could it be those who are turned on at the sight of their bodies because they were created “in God’s own image,” or are they just following the latest college fad because it’s the latest thing? If you chose the latter, you are probably right. During the last several days many people were asked their opinion on the streaking fad. Few accepted it just as a fad, and most of them considered it a “senseless and shameless act” created by whites to show their fear of, and belief in, the Systems’ sick acts of immorality. One young lady, when asked her opinion, said “it shows no respect for themselves or anyone else’s rights. It is very nauseating to see so many people running around naked as a jaybird, especially when they have no color to their skin. Another view of streaking is “a silly white man’s bag”. Had it been chicanos who had started streaking, we would have been snatched up by the pigs and charged with everything from indecent exposure to being mentally retarding. But because the streakers are Anglos, society looks upon it as a college fad. This only goes to show the double standard society places on their values. Only Anglos can defy the law without any punishment from the law.We can’t allow ourselves to be categorized with this type of behavior. As chicanos, we must try and understand the mentality of those who would allow themselves on one day say that they are for the end of all injustices and inequalities of America, and then turn around and do sick things like streaking. Society is ready to accept anything that does not create an awareness of the corruption in this country, but will not allow people to see the real problems that exist today. The media views streaking as fun and games, and as no harm towards anyone. What they don’t realize is that the system creates this simple and ridiculous game to distract our attention from the issues at hand. It’s a well known fact that a movement without a cause is doomed to fail, just as one whose followers’ are led like cows to the market must and will fall. There is a lesson to be learned from streaking and that is that we as an oppressed people cannot allow our children to be continually exposed to the warped minds of those who would have you think anything is OK as long as it raises no question about those in power. After examining all those who were interviewed, I could only agree with those who thought of it as morally wrong. There is moreto life than just running around doing things just because no one else can think of anything better to do. It amazes me to think that there are people who will run for and hold public office, and then will try and force their morals and values upon our people. If they are the ones who will sit on juries and decide what is right for others, or examine our women in the doctor’s offices stereotyping our women as whores and prostitutes, I would be reluctant to ever commit a crime or go to the doctor again. This can only make our movement stronger because it is now that we must organize and unite our people against this type of so-called man. When I asked Magdeleno Avila what he thought of speakers he said “while we are trying to organize farmworkers so that they might be able to feed and clothe their families, streakers are taking theirs off just to get attention and set records.” Perhaps if the farmworkers were to take off their clothes then maybe they would gain national attention and support for their cause. I would hope that they not decide to take them off just for the sake of taking them off. But they would keep their self respect and would accomplish all that they have set out to do with pride and dignity, for then and only then accomplish their goals without prostituting our people.