El Movimiento requires total sacrifice - from page 1
Han pasado otras cosas que, si, personalmente nos duelen y son cosas que, pues podimos dccir que frenan un poco el desarrollo de nuestro pueblo, pero si tenemos la confianza y con fe completa podemos ver que con el tiempo se puede hacer, y en el tiempo los acontecimientos desde octubre de 1973 y especialmente los acontecimientos de mayo 1974 cuando fallecieron seis luchafdores, seis personas que entendian bien cual era la lucha del pueblo Chicano, cual era la lucha de la gente ’ primida, de los pueblos reprimidos por una sistema, una sistema que ha convertido a los mejicanos entre otros pueblos en Latino Americana. Nos han convertido de propietarios a proletaries y ahora nos quieren convertir a mendigos. En el tiempo, vamos a major poder los acontecimientos en su propio perspective para en verdad ver que fueron un paso para delante para nuestra lucha. Los companeros que fallecieron en mayo, entendian buen la via con cual vamos con tiempo lograr nuestra libertad, nuestra soberania y eseparnos del yugo de una sistema que esta podrida y racista. For the last, well since we left in October, we have been wondering how we can best do something that is going to help advance a just cause, a just cause that belongs to Chicanos, a just cause with which many people not only in the United States but in all of America Latina and in the world can sympathize with and will support us, if we bring our cause to their attention and if we show them that we are sincere and that we are not going to compromise anywhere along the road until we achieve a socialistic state, a state where all men are equal not only in the eyes of the law but in the eyes of each other ~ By now it is probably public what we have chosen to do. Our decision was a hard decision; our decision was made after much consideration, much deliberation. We looked for many alternatives, but we saw few. We saw very few because in reality the level of struggle within the Chicano Movement, the level of struggle that is going to be meaningful in the long run, is at a very, very low level. The Chicano Movement since its revival in its present form for the past decade or so, has made some very progressive steps. Everyone is familiar with the battle, the struggle that was done with the government, the government programs, all of the institutions that control the United States, which are the same institutions that control much of the world. Along this route, some people were progressive enough to realize that you cannot reform the system, because it is corrupt through and through. The whole structure of it is not going to benefit anyone but those few who have constructed that system. Therefore, it must be destroyed! Today we are at another level where the Chicano Movement itself has many reformers in it. Where the Chicano Movement itself has many pseudo revolutionaries, where these pseudo revolutionaries want to create a social revolution, but are not willing to pay the social cost However, the people who are willing to pay the social cost are often the victims not only of the “man,” BUT of these so called “Chicano Revolutionaries,” who exploit and take advantage of the death, the blood, the suffering that many of our brothers and sisters
are going through. Many people and many groups choose to make posters, choose to make buttons, choose to speak for high speaking fees at universities and yet these same people are the few who will not convert that money or those posters, or those buttons, into bullets, or guns, or bombs.The value of propaganda, the value of dissemination of information is very, very important. But it is becoming more and more apparent to people, not only in the Chicano Movement, but in other Movements throughout the world, that there are leaders, that there are organizations who denounce monopoly capitalism, but who themselves are trying to monopolize the Chicano Movement, who are trying to monopolize other movements. This is not fair to the people, this is not fair to the individuals who are struggling, to the individuals who are doing the work that is very necessary to liberate our people. The issue then becomes what are we going to do about it? How are we going to continue our struggle, a just struggle against the system which presently controls us and how are we going to countereffect the overtures in the movements and the activities of the groups and of the leaders who are leading our people down a false path, who are giving our people wrong direction? We all realize that the work amongst masses is very, very important, trying to influence people, trying to gain their confidence, trying to gain their respect, so that we can become comrades, brothers who are on the streets together. It is very, very important to maintain a strong, consistent, and defiant policy of newspapers, recordings, magazines, and posters. However, this is not the entire job that must be done. A social revolution can only be won when people are willing to pay a social cost Today there is much confusion as to what the social cost is, in the revolution that we are attempting to carry to its end. The social cost that must eventually be paid and which is increasingly being paid is the sweat, the blood, the tears and the deaths that are no doubt going to be familiar scenes if, indeed, we are willing to carry our principles to their end, to an end which is going to benefit not only the Chicanos, but which is going to place the Chicanos in the eyes of the world opinion and which is going to meet with the favorable approval of countries and nations and people throughout the world, who have thrown off the yoke of oppression, the yoke of greed, that is so widespread.
Kiko’s sister Rita attended Grand Junction conference sponsored by La Voz Nov. 2. Ray Otero is pictured next to her. As far as overhauling the Chicano Movement so as to prevent false leaders, from false groups, from monopolizing and from false propagandization, we must be critical not only of ourselves, but of other groups and other people. If a person is sincere in his ideas he will be open and accept criticism, but this criticism will be in vain unless there are actions and followup on that criticism. People who are unwilling to be criticized are not worthy of being included in the pantheon of social revolutionaries. As far as the moves and actions that we are taking at the present time, we have tried to analyze it We have tried in some way to arrive at a decision that we feel might help not only our situation, but that of alf our brothers and sisters, who at the present time and increasingly in the future will be victimized by the system we fight against. We realize that the move is not a perfect movement; we realize that there are many weak points to it, that after analyzing it and after talking with people we trust, we feel that considering the conditions, it is the most we can do at the present time. However, this does not mean that we will not continue to struggle and aim for the day when we can continue to engage in the work that is absolutely necessary for the complete and unconditional liberation of our people. In the future we hope that we will be able to help accelerate the advances that are being made by the Chicanos, that we can place the Chicano Movement in its rightful and proper position amongst the progressive people of Latin America and the world. We request that people continue to struggle, that people continue to be analytical, continue to plan and continue to prepare for the day when we will play a valuable and necessary role in overthrowing the present system of government, the present economic structure, and the complete annihilation of the powerful and rich persons and families and organizations in the country who use this power to oppress people not only here in the United States, but in the entire world. We fully understand the new and increasing waves of repression that are being continually unleashed by the repressive forces such as the district attorneys’ offices, federal offices, and police departments. We realize that many people are going to be unwilling victims of this new wave of repression. We realize that people are going to have to be strong, «ha* people are going to have to work together, and that people are going to have to fight against these waves of repression. We ask that because of these waves of repression that people do not become paranoid, do not become immobile, that people do not become too afraid of each other, that people “do” trust each other, because in the conditions we find ourselves, we have to trust someone. We realize that there are chances in trusting someone, but if an intelligent and considered decision is made, we will know who to trust, and for the great majority of the time, we know that we will be amongst people we can trust and people whom we can work with. Por lo pronto, es todo que podemos decir, sabemos que algunas cosas no se pueden dicutir para que se entienden major. Pedimos que no hay disentimiento y que si hace una critica para majorar nuestra ideologia, para mejor seguir con las actividades y las obras que son necesarias para cumplir nuestra lucha. Quisieramos estar a hoy entre
ustedes fisicamente para presentarles este discurso. Sabemos buen que este discurso estuvo preparado en un cuarto donde no hay personas para recibir y interpretar sus reacciones de las palabras. Esperantos que hacen una lucha con buena fe para entender lo que queremos decir, con esto les damos un gran abrazo a todos los que creen como nosotros. Esperamos con fe completa el dia en que podremos reunir. Estamos agradecidos a las personas que nos han ayudo en medios diferentes, y no son pocos, son muchos. Creemos que este es el modo de lucharunidos. QUE VIVA Heriberto Teran, Reyes Martinez, Florencio Granado, Una Jaakola, Neva Romero, Francisco Doughterty y apoyamos completamente, y queremos apoyar con cualquiera cosa que podemos a la familia de Antonio A lean tar. GRACIAS. HEMOS DICHO.
