Innovative Printing for Kids
The Lincoln Elementary School has initiated a program to facilitate and make writing more interesting, as well as, much easier for students in the fourth and sixth grades. The innovated program, the Lincoln Publishing Company (LPC), is run by elementary students and an advisory staff including a resource teacher, a parent and three workstudy students from the university. An elementary student writes a story or poem and brings the story into the center to have it published in book form. The LPC, composed of four major components or committees, editing, printing, illustrating and binding, then produces the story. The procedure is educational. First, the student (author) fills out a form stating that he wishes to publish his story. Then the editors edit the story making corrections. While the story is in the editing committee, the author fills out another form, indicating the number of pages the story will be broken into; the size of the pages or book; and who will illustrate the book, as well as. who will bind it. The author has the opportunity to select who will do the work, himself or members of the LPC. The author, after his story has been edited, selects how the book will be printed. The LPC has two typewriters with “primer” size type and an “elite" typewriter. The author decides whether or not he wishes to write the story in his own handwriting or have someone else handletter the story for him. If he does not want it handlettered, he can type it or have it typed. Next the story goes to the illustrating committee. If the author does not wish to draw his own pictures, he meets with the “illustrators” to select who will illustrate his story. The author selects an illustrator from drawings submitted by the illustrating committee. The binding committee is the last to work on the book. The author selects the type of material to be used and the manner in which it is to be bound. He can have the “binders” bind his book with burlap or other cloths; with contact paper or construction paper. The author might even prefer his book being stapled rather than sewed or glued. Binding the book completes production. One copy is automatically turned over to the Lincoln Elementary School Library, where it is cataloged and placed on the shelves. The Library keeps all LPC books for future use. A second copy is made for the author’s own library. The LPC is away to motivate elementary children to write, draw, or type, exposing students to various new and adult-type activities. The elementary students must fill out job applications in order to become an active member of one of the four committees. The application has various questions asking why they can be worthwhile members of the components. LPC is a small world in which “the bosses" are the elementary students. If this type program could be instituted in more elementary schools, elementary students could learn the “essentials” of school work and practical “business-like” activities.
