Kuo receives Chicano Studies plan
Chicano students at the University have been voting the last few days on a new proposal for a Chicano Studies Academic Program. The new proposal, according to Patrica Sutton, a member of the student committee that drew up the plan, is a "reaction to the fact that the ECMAS (Educational Committee for Mexican American Studies) has not had student representation in their plans for Chicano studies.” The Chicano studies Proposal Committee was created at the first UMAS organization meeting for the fall semester. Ten Chicanos participated in the committee, Sutton said. As planned, the Chicano Studies Major would include several important components: Students would design their own course of study, subject to the approval of their advisers and the Chicano Studies Council; Students will normally take at least 15 hours of their major in approved and continuous off campus living/learning experiences in their junior and/or senior year (provided that the project is completed and
evaluated prior of their commencement semester); All students would choose a second major in the University of Colorado’s other programs. Approximately 30 courses would be offered under the new Chicano studies department, with new additions being made as faculty and other supportive staff are hired. The controversy over an undergraduate major in Chicano studies has been raging for years. Several proposals have been submitted to various University officials for a Chicano Studies Department, an undergraduate degree in Chicano Studies, and even for more professors to teach Chicano Studies. The response has usually been the same: “We haven't got the money for these proposals,” University administrators and faculty have told us. In addition, problems have been encountered in the area of what Studies should center on. Will Chicano studies be an examination of culture, heritage and Chicano contributions to America, or will our program be relevant to Chicanos now? The proposal addresses this
topic, saying “since education should open up options in life for the student (rather than prepare one for life), our program concentrates on contemporary and future issues in such areas as communications, economics, etc. . . . as they relate to self-determination.” Among the courses to be offered under the new proposal are: Institutional racism; Alternative Political Systems; U.S. Involvement in Latin America; History of Chicano Student Organizations. The proposal was given the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Alexander Kuo, who has since told UMAS students of several changes which may be made. According to Pat Sutton, Kuo wants to group Chicano Studies under the broad heading of Ethnic Studies, a proposal that would probably dilute the strength of a Chicano Studies department. "The proposal is still subject to revision,” Sutton said, “and we’re counting on students to supply the input for the changes.”

