Reporter does La Raza injustice

by John L. Espinosa

Ruben Salazar where are you?  Remember Ruben Salazar? He was the former Los Angeles Times reporter mysteriously killed by a sheriffs deputy during the 1969 L.A. Moritorium. But more important, Ruben Salazar was the first Chicano reporter to gain national recognition by documenting the oppression, racism and injustices suffered by la raza. Today there are Spanish-surnamed reporters in nearly every southwestern city. Although they have followed in Salazar's footsteps, none could claim to fill his shoes. In fact, there is a general agreement in the movement that these aspiring reporters are doing more harm than good. Ironically it was movement leaders such as Rodolfo "Corky" Gonzales of the Crusade for Justice who applied the pressure which opened the journalism field to raza reporters. Many of these reporters have since become the tools of an already biased press. When Frank Moya writes in the Rocky Mountain News that there is a link between the Crusade for Justice and a recent attempted bombing in Denver the readers believe him. When any Chicano reporter condemns another Chicano in any way, the readers are eager to believe. Many want to believe that minorities, Chicanos, are a threat to them, others are simply convinced that if a Chicano reporter thinks his people are connected with a crime; are armed and dangerous; or anything else, he must know what he is talking about. "After all, isn't he one of them?" Editors have been quick to learn that young reporters Chicano reports about Chicanos carry more weight with readers. But the old Chicano-vs-Chicano-trick may have been tried once too many times The Crusade is suing the News because of Moya's article “is another slanted report in a pattern of systematic, intentional, and willfull mis-reporting," a Crusade press release charged. 1 asked Frank Moya about the report but because of threatened court action he refused to discuss the Crusade-related story, however, he talked freely about other stories I objected to. The most recent was a Jan. 29, 1974, front-page story in which Moya reported "Ex-bouncer found dead behind Alpine Inn." The story was about the death of Ralph L. Pizzalato, 30, who was found shot to death in Denver. In the third paragraph, Moya clearly implicates that Pizzalato's death might be related to his December 1 acquittal in the shooting death of Richard Sanchez, 23. In the account of Sanchez' death, Moya writes about two of Sanchez' friends who witnessed Pizzalato shoot Sanchez five times in the chest. In short, the reader was lead to believe Chicano revenge may have ended Pizzalato's life. In the afternoon addition of The Denver Post, the article casually mentions the Sanchez killing, but it devotes most of its coverage to uncovering Pizzalato's connections with known crime figures. The clear implication here is that Pizzalato had dealings with underworld figures and could have been killed for numerous reasons. The following day, the News reported a similaf story disclosing Pizzalato's "connections.” In this story too, the implication was that he may have been killed over any one of his questionable dealings. My point is For the hundreds of readers who were lead to believe Pizzalato was killed out of revenge for Sanchez and who did not read any other accounts, the damage has been done. Once again Chicanos have been implicated in a violent death. Moya said the story was written in an hour to meet a late deadline .ind the information connecting Pizzalato and Sanchez was the only background he could find in the News' library. If he had had the time, he may have found the "underground” connections and written a better story. He would not concede the story had any implications. He said the story was factually sound and any implication of Chicano involvement in the death were read into the story by people like me. He added that he knew Sanchez' friends didn't have anything to do with the killing. It was under pressure of another deadline that Moya mistakenly reported that Brian Sanchez (no relation to the slain banchez), tormer University student, was arrested during the 1972 National La Raza Unida Convention for "smuggling goods." across the border. 1 was also covering the convention at the time and Moya told me about Brian being arrested for smuggling. 1 told him that I had been with Brian and knew he had been arrested for assault, not smuggling. He said he didn't feel that there was enough difference between smuggling and assault to merit a “fix' (correction). To bring the arrest up again in a correction would only draw more attention to the case, he argued. Brian was convicted and served 1 0 months in prison before he was acquitted at a retrial. Moya said he is "pretty sure” the News didn't run a story about Brian s acquittal. It was no longer newsworthy.

Moya denied being a "dupe" for the News and charges that he is "doing a job on Chicanos.” "I'm just doing a job," he said. "Sometimes stories I write are embarrassing to certain people I've even embarrassed policemen. It's unfortunate that these things have to enter into reporting." He takes credit for the content of his stories and said the editors print them the way he writes them. He admits he has critics but he asked "Where are they when I write feature stories about projects such as the Pinto Project that are doing some good." Such stories he said he does on his own time with his own initiative. One example of his writing that has brought results Moya said was an article he wrote about the Police’s "heavy handed" enforcement of curfew at Denver’s La Raza Park. Shortly after the article ran. Chief Dill called a meeting of the community and called for a moratorium on the curfew which is still in effect. Because of the criticism he has received from the Chicano community, Moya said he is not trying to take the assignments intentionally. "They don’t hand out stories by pedigree," he said. "Frankly I’m to the point that when it comes to a story dealing with Chicanos, I just as soon not take it." This is not an attempt to fry Moya. It is simply a look at a trend in Chicano journalism that I feel is wasteful. For 18 months Moya has been writing regularly for the News and whether he knows it or not, he has become a whip against his own people. Remember it was The Denver Post and the Rocky Mountain News who absolved police of any wrong doing in the March 17, 1973 massacre at the Escuela Tlatelolco. It was they who convicted the Chicano defendants months before all but one were acquitted in the courts. It was they who put a price on Francisco "Kiko" Martinez’ head and marked him as a wanted man without benefit of a trial. It was the press who drug the names of Falcon, Junior and Meehan thru the mud and at the same time sympathized with the murderer of 11 -year-old Santos Rodrigues. If we understand the true nature of the press and refuse to be used, then we can use the press as our tool. As Chicano reporters we can write the hundreds of thousands of stories of our people who have never had anyone to write for them stories about 20th century slavery in the fields; reports of the real drug pushers in our barrios; stories articles about schools who deny our heritage; and exposes of the prostitutes who lure our people to sleep with lies. Let the editors write their own yellow journalism. The work left by Ruben Salazar is far from finished. Life is too short and our need is too great that we should use our skills to condemn our Raza. The role of a movement journalist is no different than any other activist. We must employ our skills to further the struggle of our people. Che was a doctor. He once said he was a revolutionary first and a doctor second.