Community says chale to 'Operation Return’
A community meeting to discuss the situation of “Operation Return,” a five-week old repressive maximum security lockup of 199 prisoners (92 Chicano, 55 Black) currently underway in Cellhouse 7 in the Colorado State Penitentiary at Canon City, has been called for tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Westside Action Center, 1 100 Santa Fe Drive, Denver.
The meeting is in response to the growing public concern over the provisions of a program implemented Sept. 12 by prison authorities against inmate “troublemakers.” The provisions have placed severe hardships on the convicts. Prison officials have subjected the Cellhouse 7 inmates to 22-24 hours of cell confinement; denial of showers, hot water and toilet articles; inadequate diets; confiscation of monies, legal materials and personal property; restricted visitations without notifying family; discontinuation of educational, vocational, and religious programs, including hobbies used as a source of income; and limited access to mail and legal counsel, including lawyers as an allcged method to return control of the state facility from the inmates to prison authorities. A comprehensive history of the situation will be presented at the meeting and strategies for community action will be developed. In related developments, last week one inmate in Cellhouse 7 attempted suicide after he had been told by the prison’s administration that his wife and daughter had been involved in a car accident. Prison officials denied him access to a phone call to check on the conditions of his family, an El Diario spokesman said. Last Wednesday, several Denver area ethnic and civic organizations held a press conference to protest the conditions in Cellhouse 7. One of the speakers addressing the press, Ernesto Vigil of the Crusade for Justice, said the entire concept behind Cellhouse 7 was wrong. He accused prison officials of guilt in the death of Billy Padilla, a convict who had predicted he would be murdered in the prison. Vigil also said an ignorant public was as responsible as the killer himself for Padilla's murder. “If lives mean nothing to you, if you have no concern or compassion and make no attempt to
understand what’s happening, your soul has been dead for a long time,” he said. Barbara Adebiyi of the Minority Women’s Caucas said that inadequate measures were being taken to insure the safety of convicts from other convicts. Adebiyi said one inmate was sent to Cellhouse 3, where ‘mentally disturbed' inmates are quartered, even though he had previously been stabbed previously while in Cellhouse 3. Ron Rosen of the Medical Committee for Human Rights said that prescription medicines were being withheld from Cellhouse 7 inmates. Rosen termed the conditions in Cellhouse 7 “the best breeding grounds I've ever seen for an epidemic.” Other speakers accused the prison authorities of lying when they alleged that six guards could have easily been burned to death after inmates allegedly set fire to the prison gymnasium Sept. 1 2. The gymnasium fire was the major incident cited by prison authorities as a rationale for “Operation Return.” Yet many other factors went into the prison authorities decision. Last month, three convicts escaped from the penitentiary and killed a number of people between here and Texas before one was shot to death and the others captured. The prison received widespread publicity after it became known that prison authorities were previously warned that an escape attempt would be made by the three convicts. Two guards were fired in the aftermath of this escape, and the state government’s corrections department was heavily criticized. The prison was also the scene of a widely-publicized scandal last year in which former Acting Warden Fred Wysc and other prison officials were accused of taking home requisitioned food-stuffs and other state property for their own use.
