UMAS-EOPSupportive Services are the best in the nationFinancial Aid Perhaps the most basic service provided by UMAS-EOP is financial aid, since most students admitted under the program are in ( need of financial assistance. This year students attending the Summer Program will receive a complete financial aid package. This means that they will have all fees, tuition, books, housing and food provided in addition to a small stipend for personal expenses. All of the summer financial aid will be grant monies and will not have to be paid back. Married students will be housed in University housing and single t students will live in the dorms, Jerry Soliz, assistant director of financial aid told El Diario that exceptional cases will be considered independently. The personal-expenses-stipend for single students will be $25 and $4O for married students; the stipends will be paid every two weeks. Deadline for applying for summer financial aid is April A student must also apply for Fall Semester 1974 and Spring Semester 1975 before he will be considered for summer financial aid. All students applying for summer financial aid must also apply for the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) and must be able to show the financial aid office proof of application before he will be considered for summer aid. Application forms for the BEOG can be obtained from any U.S. post office, high counselor or local college. Although April 1 is the application deadline for financial aid, Soliz said that late applications will be considered after those who met the deadline have been awarded their aid. He encouraged all potential students to visit the financial aid offices at their convenience and if they want further assistance in applying, contact: Jerry Soliz, Assistant Director of Financial Aid, Admin. Annex. 280, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, 80302 or call 443-221 1, ext. 6281.Advising The functions of the Academic Advising Component are many and diversified, but it exists legitimately because of constant contacts and exchange with the student population. Students attending the University of Colorado at Boulder, and at the Denver Center, utilize our advising services as well. Also, students seeking employment with various local corporations and companies use this office as a means of contacting executive in the area of industry in which they choose. The number of students seeking information, major selection and pre-science advising are just too numerous to mention at this time and within this space. Another function of this office is to set up the rooms and a schedule of courses for the summer program, this way alleviates the possibility of class conflicts. This applies to the regular academic year in so far as this office is completely and solely responsible for pre-registration of the fall and spring semester encompassing controlled enrollment classes as well. Academic Advising also includes working with the student employment office in finding graduating Chicano seniors and placing them in permanent positions in accordance with their major. Referring back to the summer program; we also administer the SVIB test to incoming freshmen, and try to keep the testing as an on going test throughout the regular academic year. That was not possible this semester because of the lack of funds to pay the testing office for computer print outs. Working with the office of Admissions of other colleges and universities throughout the -country has given the advising component perhaps the largest centrally located store of booklets, registration materials and general grad, information in the UMAS program. To be sure this store is always replenished our name is on the mailing list of Universities from Harvard to Stanford, and everywhere in between. In conclusion, if one were to set both a number figure and a time spent figure as to the amount of students serviced to this component, all of the preciously mentioned factors must be taken into consideration. Based on that figure, the writer of this evaluation estimates approx. 50 hours a week servicing 12 to 15 students a day, or 60 to 80 students weekly. counselor The UMAS-EOP counseling component works directly with approximately 300 Freshman students. Indirectly, the counseling component works with any Chicano student within the program in need of assistance, be it personal of academic. The primary responsibilities and functions of the counseling component of UMAS-EOP are: to develop and encourage the survival skills of new studentsin the University atmosphere. The counselor acts as a mediator between the academic environment and the new student. The counselor is available at all times. The responsibility of the counselor is to help the new student realize that his education is only a tool and that his expertise should be carried back to his community to aid his people. The counseling component has also developed a summer job bank for those students interested in a summer job. Contact University extension 8316 for more details. Another aspect that has come about is the concept of accountability. The counseling component has developed a set of procedures wherein each counselor documents his working assistance with UMAS-EOP students. Math No matter what your Math background is, we have a course that will begin where you are ready to begin. Our Math 100 carries a total of 5 (five) college credits. It begins with a quick review of arithmetic, goes into evaluation of formulas, operations with positive and negative numbers and solving linear equations. It continues with factoring, square roots, exponents, quadratic equations, systems of equations, sets and graphs. If you know all this material then, of course, you won't need Math 100. But if you are weak in all or some of the areas, the course will be available for you. We give a placement test to help determine where you should start. In the summer program most people will take either the first or the second part. A few people might take the entire course. Students who take the first part may take the second part in the fall. In addition, there is a Math Coordinator to help you with any difficulties related to Mathematics. The coordinator will assist you in selecting appropriate math courses for your major or interests. If you don't know what to do about a math course, you can always talk with the coordinator.History course will be offeredA new addition to the UMASEOP offerings of summer courses will be the voluntary "History of the Chicano Student Movement on College Campuses.Ó The course will focus on the reasons why Chicanos have organized on college campuses and the development of Chicano student organizations. Prior to 1965, the number of Chicanos graduating from universities and colleges was minimal. Chicano students became aware of the inequities in education and organized to work toward improving conditions. California and Texas were two states in which Chicano students became active, and Colorado followed their example. A lot of energy was exerted to recruit Chicano students and faculty, and it became very necessary to involve the community. Attempts will be made to invite former and present Chicano leaders in the community and from colleges to relate what they have done and what they are doing to improve the Chicano situation. The course will be very stimulating and motivating for all who take it. UMAS history in Colorado will be covered extensively so that new students will have a clear understanding of what has taken place in the past. We feel that our history is of great importance so that we can maintain the spirit and tradition of Chicano unity and movement.