West Denver Chicanos oust Cinquanta

The bonds of oppression have long been felt by Chicanos throughout Aztlan. but not until recently have Chicanos voiced • discontent with the political, social and economic factors affecting their lives. In the past few years Chicanos have been trying to develop an independent political party for the betterment of Chicanos by Chicanos. In September of 1972, representatives of different Chicano groups from all over Aztlan came together to discuss the building of a political movement based on a revolutionary concept. The plan was to provide Chicanos with an alternative to the corrupt, hypocritical political system that has oppressed Chicanos and all other minorities in America. As a result of this convention. El Partido de Raza Unida in Colorado adopted El Plan Espiritual de Aztlan as its platform, and committed itself to the philosophy of an independent party, not an endorsing or compromising political group.

Conventions like this one and others brought about the idea of a national convention to be held somewhere in Aztlan. Jose Angel Gutierrez called on Chicanos to attend the first National La Raza Unida Convention in El Paso. Texas, during the '72 Labor Day weekend. The conference was called to discuss the national party's platform and the unification of all Chicanos under one political party. Prior to the convention Rudolfo Corky Gonzales released a statement to the press calling the convention "the first of its kind in history." Corky also said that La Raza Unida should be a totally independent party, not allied with the other two political parties. The first National Convention of La Raza Unida began with a shadow of oppression over the proceedings. One of the Colorado delegates. Ricardo Falcon, was killed enroute to the convention. The death of Ricardo Falcon was but another sign of the many injustices that brought the delegates together in the first place.

His death brought responses from throughout the country. One telegram was received from then presidential candidate George McGovern, who called the shooting "a senseless act of insanity," a statement he later had to retract because of political pressure. At the convention's end. some 3000 delegates representing 18 states voted not to endorse either of the presidential candidates, and chose not to run one of their own. There was# however, the development of a permanent steering committee to formalize the party's national platform. The steering committee was to meet in Albuquerque. New Mexico, but because of internal problems it was called a failure. To those who stayed and tried to bring some unity to the Congresso. it was not a total failure. Positive results came out of the convention, for those who were there know just where some people stand when it conies to the masses of the Chicanos whose

lives they would try and control. There are several views among Chicano leaders of La Raza Unida. There is the balance of power concept, or the block vote, which consists of selling our votes to the highest bidder, in return for promises of improvement and social change. We would exchange our votes for promises from the country that has broken all the treaties it signed with the American Indian and countless other groups. Another philosophy held by others in La Raza Unida stresses the non-involvement of LRU with the other two political parties, for this would be the prostitution of our people for the benefit of the few who would do the bargaining with Chicano votes. It is now up to the masses of Chicanos in Aztlan to choose between the two different philosophies and decide which road we as an oppressed people shall travel. Are we to bow down to the establishment once again or are we going to stand up for ourselves and our nation of Aztlan?