Chicanos Chalk Up
Arriving at the pool tournament, I entered into an atmosphere of quietness and great concentration. One could see the somber faces of the participants and could hear the carom of well planned shots. Some chalked up planning strategic shots, while
others sat and waited impatiently for a chance to become the winner in the UMAS pool tournament. Many played well and only a few played better. It was a close contest between Danny Vallez and Louie Sandoval. Satisfied with the rack, Danny
broke and found himself in good position. Taking advantage, he ran all but the deuce and eight Louie after planning his shots took only a moment to regain his composure. He shot with great accuracy, clearing the table of all but the eight. Now the tension was
at a peak he knew if he missed Danny wouldn’t. He chalked up, eyed the eight and the cueball. His mind was at ease only when he heard the sound of the eight filling the empty corner pocket making him the victor. Each received a trophy and five dollars.
Garcia
Richard (Lencho) Garcia has successfully completed his third year as director of the bilingual, bicultural summer program in Boulder under Title I. Classes were taught both in Spanish and in English, making them very beneficial to all who attended. Only through his strenuous efforts and dedication did the program succeed. Garcia, after graduating in Spring, 1974, returned to the San Luis Valley, and is presently employed by the La Jara Public Schools as director of all OEO (Office of Economic Opportunity) funding.
Services
Tutoring assistance, academic advising and counseling with any problem you may encounter as a University student are just some of the services available to MAP students. Tutoring service can be obtained through the MAP office or with the assistance of your counselor. We have tutors available in nearly every academic field in the university. If we don’t have what you need, we will find one that will suit your needs. In the MAP office, starting Oct. 14, a poster with pictures of every counselor, their office hours and personal information which will assist the student in contacting their counselor, will be posted.
Unmet need
At a general MAP meeting last summer, students decided each member should try to make some contribution towards fulfilling the unmet need of students with need for the up-coming academic year. It was passed that each MAP student contribute $5 toward this goal. Be assured there will be no
Hernandez
As of Tuesday, Oct. 8, George Hernandez added to his responsibility of budget director for UMAS. He now assumes the temporary position of acting director until Nov. I, 1974. Alex Kuo (assistant vice chancellor) has told the Search Committee that by Nov. I, they will have to decide upon an applicant for the job. If by then no decision has been made, other alternatives will have to be explored. No definition of such alternatives was given by Kuo at this time. Hernandez’s responsibility consists of maintaining UMAS budgetary matters and overall program supervision. He is presently working on the internal hassles which exist between staff and students. There is an all-out effort to get rid of all hidden movidas and to bring out concerns. This should clear the air of misinformation. By assuming the acting director position for UMAS, Hernandez will have to play a dual role: (1) that of serving MAP students with their problems concerning academic advising and financial aid; and (2) to tend to UMAS affairs.
abuse of this money. Those with the unmet need will receive money according to their need on a monthly basis. Understand that this was done as an emergency due to the fact that MAP was not prepared to meet this crisis. Gracias, MAP STAFF
Danny Vallez, second place winner in lIMAS pool tour-
pool tournament participants
Richard “Lencho” Garcia and Leo Lobato receiving trophy for third consecutive year in the Boulder Pow Wow days parade
Louie Sandoval, first place winner UMAS pool tournament
