Ballet reflects our Chicano heritageIn recent years the Chicano Movement has done much to bring back and preserve the beauty of our culture. One of these many beauties is the Mexican Folk dance. Through the struggles of revolutions and oppression our music and dances still remain. The biggest and best known Mexican Folk dance troupe is El Ballet Folklorico de Mexico, presently under the direction of Norma Lopez Hernandez. The Ballet Folklorico de Mexico consists of two ballet companies with over 200 dancers, musicians and singers. The two ballet companies are known as the touring company and the resident company. The Ballet Folklorico has toured most of Europe, Russia and Poland and has completed tours to Australia, New Zealand and several visits to the United States, Canada and the Latin Americas. The Ballet Folklorico recently appeared in Denver during its ninth United States tour. Many of the dances done by the Ballet Folklorico are dances of love, courtship and marriage but the dances also tell stories of animals and their relationship to man and of the times of revolution and the struggles of the people. Dances done in Mexico are strongly influenced by the Spanish culture, such as in the state of Vera Cruz, where the dances are performed with a considerable amount of footwork. In the state of Tamaulipus dancing is done barefoot, showing the influence of the Indians. The costumes worn for the dances relate back to the type of climate or lifestyle of a particular people. In the state of Yucatan,for instance, which is in southern Mexico and near the equator a lot of white is worn to protect against the sun. The dances relate not only the stories of the people but also lot about the people. Local Ballet Out of the dance troupes in Colorado probably the better known is Ballet Chicano de Aztlan. Ballet Chicano de Aztlan has a troupe of about 25 Chicanos, the majority of whom are students of the Escuela Tlatelolco in Denver. The Ballet Chicano de Aztlan has been in existence now for about 6 years. Under the direction of Enrique Montoya the troupe has toured throughout Colorado, Kansas, Texas, New Mexico, Wyoming and several other states. Several students have been sent to Mexico to learn from Ballet Folklorico and have, then come back and taught the rest of the troupe the dances with no charge to anyone. The troupe is a nonprofit dance troupe and all the money made goes back into the Escuela Tlatelolco. For scheduling or information regarding Ballet Chicano de Aztlan call Enrique Montoya or Gina Gonzalez at 222-0825. University Ballet Another well known dance troupe in Colorado is the University of Colorado’s Ballet Folklorico directed by Lorenzo Trujillo. There are several dances offered here at the University of Colorado. Performers are picked from the classes. This dance troupe has toured throughout Colorado and Wyoming. Students interested in learning more about the dances of Mexico and their history should contact Mr. Trujillo by calling 443-2211 ext. 8316