Brighton Chicanos to sponsor rally against police harassment
Brighton Colorado Chicanos, in conjunction with Movement organizations across the state are staging a state-wide march and rally to protest the brutal police attack in community youths nearly two weeks ago. The march is set for 2:00 pm tomorrow. (Saturday) beginning at the Artie Atencio Recreation Center at 6th and Bush. The rally will feature national figures Corky Gonzales and Alberto Alurista as well as state Chicano leaders such as. Jose Calderon. Antonio Bonsell and Ernesto Vigil. Tomorrow's march and demonstration will center on the July I 3 incident in which law enforcement officers from at least seven regional agencies converged on and attacked a park where a group of Chicanos were having a peaceful party. Conflicting reports indicate at least 30 Chicano youths were arrested after being beaten by police; bitten by attack dogs; and terrorized by mace, shotguns and other riot tactics. Police Overreacted Brighton Police Chief Bon Jarvis has admitted that the police from Adams County sheriff office. Fort Lupton. Commerce City. North glenn. Thornton. Broomfield and Brighton "might have over reacted." Witnesses have reported that before the police attack, numerous police dogs were turned loose on the group and many of those later arrested were treated at a local hospital for dog bites. The attack began when Brighton police blocked the park's only exit and began asking some of the youths for I. D. cards. Before the melee ended, witnesses say police were seen dragging bystanders from their cars and beating them. Chief Jarvis attributed his officers' "possible overreaction " to his putting them on stand by "waiting for trouble.” He said every available officer was on duty awaiting trouble that night. Witnesses at the scene said it took the regional back up force only 3 to 5 minutes to respond to the provoked confrontation. Jarvis said his men were on stand by because of complaints from neighbors in the vicinity of the park. Ironically, the nearest home to Veterans Roadside Park where the incident took place is about a half mile away. Many of those arrested remained in the Adams County Jail for nearly three days although friends and relatives said they were being denied badly needed medical treatment. Local leaders Gerald Lucero and Antonio Bonsell said the attacks were designed to break up the Chicano activities in the area. Brighton has been a leading community in the movement and these local leaders feel their right to assemble in the city is being denied.

