UFWA strike, boycott gain in strength
A general farm worker strike has swept California with an estimated 5000 workers now participating. According to Jerry Ryan of the Denver United Farm Workers of America, the strike is affecting a wide range of crops from grapes to mushrooms, strawberries to lettuce. In all areas involved, Ryan said, strikes have been almost 90 per cent effective. But police violence is also high this year. Union members are again being beat up and one 17-year-old farm worker was killed by the police last week, Ryan said. He pointed out that the death was termed “unrelated" to the strikes, but that many union members have been beaten in towns after picketing. Ryan said he feels police attacks on the UFWA strikers are as frequent and violent as last years but have received less media coverage because "there’s no priests and nuns being beaten up this year.” UFWA funds are low and union members are soliciting money from local AFL-CIO chapters and individual workers, Ryan said. "It’s really interesting because the money is coming out of the workers’ pockets.” Another difference between this year and the past is that many Teamster farm workers have joined the strikers. Ryan said, for example, 220 Teamsters walked out of a Gallo Field Sept. 13. One of those workers showed the union his check stub which was only $1.10 for 27 hours of work. The worker told the UFWA he had originally been paid $75, but after Teamster dues, housing and labor contractor fees were taken out, he had $1.10 left. Ryan explained that last summer, 90 per cent of Gallo's work force walked out in sympathy with the UFWA. They were immediately replaced with Teamsters. But when the Teamsters
came back this year, they found that their union had little to offer. Ryan pointed out that under Teamster contracts, workers have no seniority rights for the First 30 days of employment and can be fired without reason with no chance to appeal. So far only one contract has been won through the strikes —a strawberry contract in Ventura, Calif. The boycotts of Gallo, grapes and lettuce remain imperative for UFWA victories in the Fields, Ryan said. Though the lettuce boycott has been continuously in effect longer than the grape and Gallo boycotts, he said, the lettuce growers are still waiting for the outcome in the grape and wine strikes. Gallo is the big one, and Ryan said he feels there are indications that boycotts have hurt the company. In the past, Gallo sales have risen 10 per cent annually. But this year, they are down 15 per cent, which actually means about a 30 per cent overall decline, Ryan said. He also said that Gallo has 12 new wines ready for marketing that will not bear the Gallo name anywhere on the bottle. However, the labels will state the wines were bottled in Modesto, Calif, and should be boycotted, he said. Two of those wines are Madria Madria Sangria and Joe Stuben. Gallo has also launched a $l3 million advertising campaign for these wines that implies the wines are foreign rather than domestic, Ryan said, citing the irony of the Joe Stuben bottle which is modeled after Holland wines. Children in China are being prepared to take Russian prisoners. They are being taught to say "Hands up" in Russian. China now regards the Soviet Union as enemy No. I, and the United States as a "paper tiger.”

