Marquez tells of Chile coupThe overthrow of Chilean President Salvadore Allende has been called the work of the United States government, working in close cooperation with the tyrannical regimes of several South American countries such as Brazil and Argentina. Gabriel Garcia Marquez, a Chilean himself, has documented the plot that ended in Allende’s murder by tying up several loose ends and clues apparent to a true Chilean loyalist. Marquez's documentation appears in the March issue of Harper's magazine, and is titled “The Death of Salvadore Allende." The story began in the upper levels of the US State department in 1969 where strategists were studying the implications of a free election of Socialist Salvadore Allende in a country dominated by American economic interests. The planners were wary of any threat to American business, and decided to meet with right-wing Chilean military men to make contingency plans in case Allende won the election. Allende did win in a free election, and began to follow through on the promises he had made. One of his first actions as President of Chile was the nationalization of holdings owned by International Telephone and Telegraph (ITT) corporation. Alter strong protests from the ITT corporation, Nixon administrators announced a boycott and economic blockade of Chile, reasoning that Chilean dependence on American replacement parts for their American manufactured goods would soon bring an end to Salvadore Allende. The blockade did cause extreme hardships in Chile, but the Allende government showed no sign of folding under this economic pressure. Then the military began to implement their contingency plan. The plan took into account the grievances held by rich Chilean landowners who had been forced by Allende to distribute land to the poor, where Allende's political backing lay. The Chilean military was also dominated by these same interests, and added to their punch was the military know-how of the United States defense department. Just prior to the coup in Chile almost all industry had been brought to a standstill by the Americans and their Chilean traitors. It is more than coincidence that American naval maneuvers, held in conjunction with Chilean forces, were occurring off the coast of Chile when the coup came down on Allende. Agents from neighboring South American countries were stationed all around the borders of Chile, waiting to attack the political refugees from the nearby despotic states. As the attack on Allende's palace began, these agents entered Chile and began murdering the political refugees, and the bloodbath has not yet ended. Military officers favorable to Allende were relieved of their posts just two days before the coup, but one indication of how popular Allende came from this purge. Chilean generals had to go live ranks down the military lists to find officers who would lead the attack against Allende. Many officers who did not oppose Allende were murdered by troops loyal to the generals. Following a plan brought forth by CIA agents who had been called in as 'advisors' to the Chilean army, the right-wing insurgents closed in on the Presidential palace. Pinpoint bombing by a crew which Marquez said were Americans left the capitol building defenseless, but Allende himself resisted until the last moment. Marquez followed the entire story behind Allende's murder with the intentness of one who knows that what was happening to his Chile was a tragedy of the worst kind. His story is well worth reading, for it documents the oppression and terror that American Capitalism is responsible for in many third world countries.