Day of Solidarity’ an educational experience
We were in New York City circling around Madison Square Garden late in the morning Sunday, Oct. 27. Old cars sped by with large and small flags waving in the wind while horns blared. The cars’ occupants called for solidarity with Puerto Rico and their struggle for independence. There were crowds surrounding Madison Square Garden waiting for the gates to open. The pigs were impatient and tense yet tolerant and careful with the crowds. We imagined many more of them around the corner in full riot suits because of the tension caused by the five bombings the day .before. We took a quick run for film and flashbulbs at the Stratler Hilton, then began searching for our seats in the Garden.
The theme was “Solidarity with the Puerto Rican struggle for Independence" and "U.S. Bicentennial Without Colonies." The event was organized by the Puerto Rican Socialist Party (PSP). Probably the major theme, of the day was that there is one common enemy that is oppressing the masses of people, while making us fight among ourselves. We must also recogni e that women, Asians, Indiars workers. Blacks, Puerto Ricans, and Chicanos, should be working together in the same struggle for freedom from the same enemy. The enemy manifests itself in imperialism and capitalism, personified in the Rockefellers, Hearsts, and Rothschilds. The only hope of someday determining our own destiny is to realize most people are as oppressed as we by the same external forces. The program at the Garden that Sunday reflected these hopes and ideologies with a wide variety of entertainment as well as speakers from many different cultures, and organizations. The crowd was over 20,000 strong with mostly latino groups and organizations from all over this country and from other countries. With each speaker that day solidarity with Puerto Rico and a strong feeling of carnalismo was expressed. There is no way to possibly express in writing the overall feelings of the event. I recommend that you take some time to listen to the tapes recorded and look at the pictures taken to get a better idea. I’ll try to give you some of our realizations, perspectives, and conclusions. We feel an inspiration to increase our struggle and to broaden our definition and the communication of brotherhood. The most immediate realization we came to was that the living conditions of the poor were different in the East in many ways from those in Colorado. In New York City there are many different racial and ethnic groups, many with sizeable populations in their own sections of the city. The ghettos are fairly obvious with condemned buildings, abandoned houses, and Puerto Rican or Black populations. There are few Chicanos in New York City where the Latino population is mostly Puerto Rican. These conditions are dif-
ferent from Colorado even down to the basic ways that people relate to each other. Even the oppression was manifested in different ways. After seeing the conditions of New York and participating in the rally there, the largest change in us was a broadening .of our perspective of our own movement in Colorado as compared to the movements in the rest of the country. We realized there were many other people organizing themselves to effectively fight the same "Man” as we are. And they are
going one step further. Most organized groups of people have allied themselves with all other groups in the same struggle. The delegation from Colorado came to this same conclusion. Another conclusion toward a stronger alliance is the need to open up new lines of communication within and outside of Colorado. This could be done in many different ways. Possibly by holding national or state conferences here, sending representatives to out of state conferences or just to learn about other organizations. We could also support all major demonstrations or issues taken up by other organizations outside of Colorado with our own actions. After seeing the progress being made in the movement back East we have felt our own progress here going more slowly. We see an urgent need for progressive steps to be taken in all of our organizations by means of active education, organization, self criticism, and the wider perspectives of brotherhood and progress itself. There are many conclusions that we found from this experience but I think these are most important. We learned a lot about people of all kinds in New York but we learned most about Puerto Ricans and their culture. We partied with them, danced to Puerto Rican music, ate their food, visited their section of the city and found many friends and brothers. At times, we were all angry, happy, sad, serious and light. We learned a lot about each other as well. 1 believe that this experience is far more valuable to all of us
than most classes at any university, because we learned about life itself and the struggle of people like ourselves to be free.
More of our brothers and sisters should be learning these lessons!! Jorge Rodriquez
