Professor Ramirez to leave CU campus after tenure denial
by Paul Mora
Professor Salvador Ramirez, Chairman of Chicano Studies, will probably be leaving the Boulder campus soon to assume another teaching position in another state. Ramirez, an assistant professor in the Sociology Department. made this announcement during the course of a long interview about his stay here. Ramirez was the first Chicano professor to be recruited to teach Chicano courses, a job he had done admirably well. Prof. Ramirez came to Boulder in the spring of 1969 and began teaching two Chicano Studies courses: Sociology 127, the Contemporary Mexican-American; and, Sociology 433, Communities. Since then he has taught many other Chicano courses, including Soc. 128, Race Relations: Soc. 413, La Chicana: Soc. 460 The Chicano Community and Community Organization; and, Soc. 462, The New Chicano Movement. 'There were no Chicano studies courses offered here when I arrived." Ramirez said, and noted that there are now 28 courses offered under the aegis of Mexican-American or Chicano Studies. Yet perhaps the greatest achievement Prof. Ramirez desired was too elusive to grasp during his five years here. A Chicano Studies Degree That prize was an undergraduate degree in Chicano Studies through an accredited department of the University. Though Ramirez worked extremely long and hard to achieve this g>al, too many obstacles were set in his way. , In 1970 Ramirez submitted a 200-page-plus proposal for an undergraduate degree in Chicano studies and a Chicano Studies department to the department of Arts and Sciences. The University administration opposed this proposal, and finally fell back on the most common rationale for de lying Chicanos educational equality: "We have no money for such a department." Ironically, the University administrators were able during the same time to put Astro turf in the football stadium for a paltry $120,000. Yet the educational needs of Chicano students were, and still are, secondary to the needs of the football team. The proposal might have succeeded in the face of this administration attack if Chicano faculty members had all aided in the battle. However, not all of the ‘Chicano' faculty members have the desire to teach Chicano students. "We don't have a faculty," Ramirez said, "the professors with Spanish-surnames haven't made a commitment to Chicano Studies, but only to 'white' studies." Ramirez mentioned Professor Anthony Lozano as one Chicano professor who had never taught a Chicano studies course. "All I received from the Spanish-surnamed professors was a verbal commitment to teach Chicano studies courses," Ramirez, said, “the students must demand it." Ramirez became unpopular among the other Chicano faculty and was the subject of several attacks by a few of them. The attack by Professor George Rivera was perhaps the most severe and most damaging, both to Ramirez and to the Chicano student body. No Chicano tenure After four years at the University came the time for the Sociology Department members to vote on whether or not Ramirez should be given tenure. The story of how Ramirez was denied tenure was told by Professor Edward Rose, a member of the Sociology department, in a long memo to Dean William Briggs of Arts and Sciences. Ramirez was treated unfairly and unjustly, Rose writes, and the whole process of voting for Ramirez’ tenure was a farce. The decision to deny Ramirez tenure was made by other Sociology department professors who would not later be subject to votes by other untenured professors. Rose took special exception to the behavior of Asst. Prof. George Rivera, who Rose says spoke against Professor Ramirez. "The Department hearings put Professor Ramirez on trial," Rose writes, and Rivera and Professor Thomas Mayer testified against Ramirez. Rose writes that both professors attacked Ramirez "without the support of documentation or physical evidence." In addition. the opposition to Professor Ramirez included several students. Rose writes that Professor Mayer stated "twenty persons connected with Chicano programs at the University are opposed to Ramirez' tenure." Furthermore, Rose writes, "the department accepted without question and accordingly without full deliberation or interrogation what Thomas Mayer had to say." With the support of ten Sociology professors, Ramirez was denied tenure. There is hope that he will pursue civil litigation against the University for some of the injustices noted here. Ramirez continues even now to work for chicano students at the University. His efforts to recruit other Chicano professors and to make Chicano studies a viable department have not been in vain, for we have seen the way things can be if we will only fight both the white and brown oppressors.
Vice President for University Relations Roland Rautenstraus tells students barricaded inside Regent Hall that they will be granted amnesty from prosecution. He also agreed to meet with students and State Congressman Sandy Arnold immediately at Mackey Auditorium. Prof. Sal Rameriz acted as a mediator with University officials.

