Lessons from Solidarity Day
“The call for unify and solidarity with the Puerto Rican independence movement is not based on a missionary outlook. We are not do-gooders. We are fighting the same enemy, the same forces that cause our lives to be so wretched.” The fact that Chicanos, Blacks. Indios. Mexicanos, Chilenos, Puertoriquenos and even ignorant middle class whites are being oppressed by the same common enemy, is a heavy concept. Just as we Chicanos are being refused the right to perpetuate our language by Common Enemy Berhaus (Boulder County School Board members) of the Boulder Racist School Board, the Puerto Ricans are being denied, by the “US Government”, the right to classroom learning in their own tongue. Instead, they are being taught in English just as we are. Just as many Black women were used as guinea pigs for birth control research in the US, one third of the women on the Island of Puerto Rico are now sterile because of US owned research centers on that island. Minorities all over the United States fought and died in the war in Vietnam. Puerto Rican men were also forced to fight in that war against a country they had no quarrel with. Where is the real war and who is the real enemy — if not in the US? Of course, the oppressed middle class in its ignorance actually believes that the danger could not spread to affect them, yet how many hundreds of thousands of dollars were, and still are, being taken from them in phony shortages, while the common enemy cruises 'round in their Cadillacs. The US reaps the profits from Chile, now that it again has control. Through our silence, we helped and are now supporting the desgraciados who control that country. That same ignorance and silence oppresses the Puerto Rican people, the Mexican people and the people in the barrios and ghettos of this country. Their economies are controlled. To put it bluntly, the US (Who runs the US?) is jiving, and we, the workers — all over the world, are the ones being jived .... Yes, even the cushioned middle class is being jived. I dare you investigate and find out for yourselves just where you stand in the great farce. Who’s your common enemy? Shirley McLaine says, "Politics is too important to be left up to the politicians!” Most people would like to stay out of the political ring, but in actuality, if you don’t act, you will be acted upon. Politics is your car, your language, the fat you do or don’t carry around with you. Politics is our lives — and our lifestyles, and even the fact that we are alive is not an accidental thing. Question Everything I truly believe that when you, my brothers and sisters, see the
evidence for yourselves, when the realization hits you, you will stand and fight. The oppression that is going on right now has to be confronted and dealt with. We have to act, before we’re acted upon anymore —before we find ourselves in an irreversible situation. Let’s fight ignorance! Let’s fight Berhaus and the Racist School Board! Let’s fight Vanderhoof and Warden Wilson of the Colorado State Penitentiary! Let’s fight Kuo and this University and get a Chicano Studies Department! Let’s fight for our right to choose our own Director! Let’s fight for the freedom of the Puerto Rican People! Freedom is a constant struggle! Que Viva la Revolucion! “Know yourself and your adversary and you’ll be able to fight a thousand wars without losing a single battle." —Che Theresa Gallegos
