Editorial
Why Puerto Rico must be free To most outside critics and other unknowning observers, the gathering of 20,000 in Madison Square Garden in solidarity with the Puerto Rican struggle for independence was merely a highlypublicized rally promoted by only a handful of Puerto Ricans. A good example of this is a Nov. 12 Denver Post editorial (a meagre revision almost verbatim —of an Oct. 28 New York Times editorial) which leads readers to believe life is just ‘hunky dory’ on the US’ colonial island. "(It is interesting to note that since Puerto Rico attained Commonwealth status in 1950, per capita income has risen from $270 to $1,834 in 1973),” the Times boasts in facts admittedly provided by the puppet Puerto Rican government under Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon. But the editors conveniently deleted the fact that inflation, which has pushed the cost of living to 25 percent higher than here on the mainland, is strangling the island. The rose-colored propaganda also fails to mention that 30 percent of the island’s work force is unemployed. The strongest point the Imperialistic argument wields is that “fewer than 5 percent of Puerto Rican voters have supported the combined pro-independence forces since 1960,” according to a government spokesman, adding that “a solid 95 percent of the Puerto Rican people have consistently voted to retain close and permanent ties with the United States, of which they are citizens.” But again the truth of the matter, the fact that half the island's population is under 25, and little more than 40 percent of the eligible voters are registered, of which at most half that number bother to cast their ballots— if known is ignored. Let’s examine the situation more closely. For Puerto Ricans, colonial status is nothing new. They have spent the last five centuries under the rule of one Western country or another. The island was “ceded” to the US as part of the spoils of victory in the Spanish-American War. Ruled first by the US military, then by presidential appointees and only recently by an elected governor, Puerto Ricans have had little power over the fate of their island; they were even made US citizens over the objection of their elected body. Today the island legislature's powers are limited to traffic regulations. Real political power resides in the US House Committee on Insular Affairs and the Senate Committee on Territorial and Insular Affairs, both of which meet in Washington, some 1500 miles from San Juan. Appeals from Puerto Rican courts are decided in Boston and final jurisdiction rests with the US Supreme Court US federal agencies control the country's foreign relations, customs, immigration, post office system, communications, radio, television, commerce, transportation, maritime laws, military service, social security, banks, currency and defense all without the Puerto Rican people having a vote in US elections. The extent of the US military control of the country is devastating. The Pentagon controls 13 percent of the island's land with 5 atomic bases, and about 100 medium and smaller military installations, training camps, and radar and radio stations. In any given 5 miles, some type of military operation can be found. Over one million boriquenos have left their native land for the barrios of East Harlem and South Bronx. That one-third of a nation would escape into exile to the slums of New York and other US cities testifies to the living conditions in the Caribbean “paradise." The fertile land of Puerto Rico has been worked and reworked to the advantage of the US and corporate profits causing the rural population to move into other areas where they lack both skills and living space. Many Puerto Ricans have been driven into economic dependence merely for survival. Four out of every five Puerto Rican families earn less than $3,000 per year; one half receive less than $l,OOO annually; in 1960, per capita income in Mississippi, the US’ poorest state, was 81 percent higher than in Puerto Rico; unemployment is 30 percent; the cost of living is 25 percent higher than the same cost in New York, Chicago, or Boston; housing is abominable in many a rural town, the only livable building is the town jail even government agencies consider 46 percent of Puerto Rico's housing inadequate. But for US businesses who enjoy tax “holidays” of 10 to 17 years, and an abundant cheap labor force (the average hourly wage in Puerto Rico is less than half of what it is in this country), the island is a dream come true. For every dollar produced in the island’s industrial system, only 17 cents is left in Puerto Rico. Only Britain, Canada, Japan, and West Germany import more US goods. Sugar and petroleum account for most of the country's industry. The sugar industry, controlled by three US companies, accounts for half the island's agricultural income —a fact determined not by the agricultural needs of the island, but by the quota. Impoverished Puerto Rican plantation workers chop the cane for tax-free US companies, ship the raw product to the US where it is refined, packaged and taxed, and then buy back the finished product at exorbitant prices. Only the petrochemical industry, with heavy investments from every major US petroleum corporation (Phillips, Union Carbide, Texaco, Standard, etc.), has seen better growth in Puerto Rico. Virtually ringing the Caribbean coast of the island in search of offshore oil, they have caused severe pollution in some of the best fishing waters in the world. This, plus the fact that the US federal government prohibits Puerto Rico from maintaining its own fishing fleet, has resulted in the island’s being forced to import 95 percent of the fish it consumes. Yes, maybe only a small percentage of the island's voting populace have favored independence in the recent pasL But this cannot be interpreted as an accurate indicacy of the island people's feelings. While a small few were voting, many more were in the streets, fields, and barrios organizing the non-voters, and the youths the heart of the independence movement Humans cannot continue to live in the squalid condition existent in Puerto Rico. When the time is right Puerto Rican independence will become reality. “It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence but on the contrary, their social existence determines their consciousness” Marx.
