History of CINCO DE MAYO
por Evelyn Martinez El Cinco de Mayo (the Fifth of May) is celebrated today as a commemoration of Mexico's defeat of the French army, at the famous Battle of Puebla* "History can either oppress or liberate a people, is the first sentence to Rudolfo Acuna's Introduction in his book Occupied America: The Chicano's Struggle Toward Liberation. This statement can very well be applied to the oppression of Mexico throughout its history. In order to place in an historical perspective the French intervention of Mexico during 1861 - 1865 the following must be considered: - The Mexican government had just been overthrow recently in the civil war between the conservatives and liberal peoples of Mexico, the land owners and the church aristocracy. Ending in the Constitition of 1857, a democratic government was set up, with Benito Juarez as president. - Under Juarez's rule, known as the Reform Period, foreign debts to France, England, and Spain had not been paid off. - At the same time, Napoleon 111, an imperialistic, power hungry dictator of France, saw Mexico's weak condition as an opportunity to seize Mexico and establish a monarchy there. - Napoleon 111 convinced England and Spain to cooperate with France to invade Mexico, using the foreign debt as an excuse. However, after accepting an agreement with Juarez, Spain and England withdrew their forces,* leaving only France to invade the Country. Thus follows the Battle of Puebla in May 1861, when the poorly equipped, inexperienced Mexican army lead by General Zaragosa, defeated the French. This was a moral victory for the Mexicans because they had defeated the powerful French army at a time when the Mexicans were weak, exhausted, and famine stricken. Although the French were defeated at Puebla, once, the French intervention continued. The disaster of Puebla taught Napoleon 111 that the task before him of conquering Mexico was not as easy as he had anticipated. He sent for more reinforcements for his army. With the arrival of the reinforcements, the French army, for the second time, advanced upon Puebla in 1862, exactly one year after their first encounter. The fall of Puebla, the gateway to the capital, was a serious blow to Mexico. Mexico City was in no position to withstand a long siege, nor was it good policy of the patriot army to risk a second serious reverse at this stage of the war. Juarez, therefore, withdrew his military forces, and removed himself from the presidency. After Juarez' removal, the Second Empire was established in Mexico under which Maximilian of Hapsburg was crowned Emperor, which lasted from 1864 - 1867. However, after 3 years of French rule, the Mexicans, having previously been defeated at the second Battle of Puebla, proceeded too slowly but surely drive the French out of the country. This fact is a remarkable proof of Mexican valor and vitality. It was an effort and an achievement to which no modem nation can bring a parallel, but it left Mexico in a state of paralysis and degeneracy from which she has not recovered to this day. The most energetic and valiant spirits of Mexico cannot be destroyed through fifty years of struggle ending in three devastating wars, without leavings terrible or damaging mark on her succeeding generations. On May 19, 1867, Maxmilian, along with two others were lined up and shot by Benito Juarez guerilla revolutionary forces. Juarez once again gained the presidency, thus bringing to an end forever the European conspiracy to rule people of our cultural heritage.
