EDITORIALS
Help our Chicano voice You may have noticed that publication of El Diario has lately been irregular, and we haven't been keeping to our bi-weekly publication date. We've been trying to deal with several problems at the same time, but things are starting to clear up now. First off, El Diario was purposely excluded from summer work-study slots for four people. For three weeks the four staff members fought to get work-study monies from Vice-President James Corbridge, who said that former UMAS-EOP directors Joe Franco and Paul Acosta had not budgeted any money at all for the continuing publication of our Chicano newspaper. Corbridge further said that the University administrators did not like the editorial content of El Diario, since we are often at odds with the CU administration. Franco had also not paid for any of the advertising El Diario staff members had run for UMAS-EOP. While Franco was director, several large ads were placed in the Colorado Daily by Franco and other UMAS-EOP component heads, and all of these ads were paid for immediately. Yet he could not bring himself to use advertising monies for a Chicano newspaper. We have tried to make our newspaper self-sufficient as far as money is concerned, but to accomplish this goal you must have a solid monetary base built on advertisers. Boulder businesses have been extremely difficult to talk into advertising with us. For example, the Crisman Speaker Company said time and time again that all of their advertising was placed in three newspapers: The Boulder Daily Camera, the Town and Country Review, and the Colorado Daily. We reluctantly accepted the manager's statement until we ran across a copy of the Colorado Engineer, a magazine put out by engineering students at CU. There it was, a full-page ad paid for by the Crisman Speaker Company. Examples of this sort are numerous, both in Denver and Boulder advertising requests. Almost every business in the Denver-Boulder area profits tremendously from Chicano trade, yet very few of these same businesses will support Chicano projects and businesses. Yet El Diario will continue to publish no matter what our financial status may be. We ask that any of our readers who would like to contribute to the newspaper come in any time and help, for there's always something you could be doing. We need reporters, photographers, advertising help, and any other volunteers who want a Chicano voice to be heard in a world of Anglo screams.
When you work in the movement, you may lose your life. No matter for what reason, you have to be prepared to die. Neva Romero (1953-1974) April 27, 1974

