Grape-Lettuce fields=Gunfight at OK CorralPut yourself back in time to a time when it was legal for rich ranch owners to hire slick gunslingers to handle their unruly business. A time when lawlessness was used to quell disobedience, and when the poor could not voice their displeasure for fear of bodily harm. Except for the time element and a few other changes, the Story is happening now. The setting for the new “gunfight at the OK corral” is the Coachella Valley the scene of many confrontations between the UFWU and the Teamsters union. The rich ranch owners remain the same, they continue to bring in outside help the modern day gunslingers, the Teamsters. The wealthy Teamsters unionpersistently send its thugs into Coachella to stop the striking. Unlike the gunslingers of old, the Teamsters are backed by wealthy conservative leaders who make up the richest labor union in the nation. The UFWA, headed by Cesar Chavez, have fought the farm owners and Teamsters with such weapons as prayers, fasting and organizing, all the peaceful kinds of rebellion. There are no guns or billy-clubs, the most often used weapons of the Teamsters gorillas. The growers aligned themselves with the Teamsters for many reasons, the main one being the preservation of the status quo. There are reports of a promise made between the two in which the growers would pay the Teamsters $7 a month union dues deducted from the pay of at least 40,000 workers. The leaders are of the same kind of faith, a faith that is bought with money. “Cultural collusion” is probably the most important consideration for the alliance of the Teamsters and the growers. The leaders of these two groups have common interests, common ideas about business and politics, and about race. The Anglos have comparable incomes $40,000 a year plus expenses to fight Cesar’s boycott. They eat in the same restaurants; play on the same golf courses; take their families on the same kind of vacations. They talk about the stock market, the danger of radicals and their shared distrust in Chavez. In 1972, Chavez received a $5 a week salary, and such expenses as $960 for house rent, $ 1,440 for food and $1,904 for medical bills incurred in Arizona, where he fasted for nearly a month in protest of that state’s passage of a law which would prohibit the boycotts.In complete contrast to the image, and reality, of Chavez stands the Teamsters president, Frank E. Fitzsimmons. Fitzsimmons draws $125,000 a year salary, plus an unlimited expense account and flies around the nation in his private, union-furnished jet.