Police Welfare divides families. The wheels of social progress go on! Systematically grinding in the web of social entrapment of our familias. Again gestapo tactics are being used against poor people. Una madre in court, the confusion on her face can be seen, she looks around for our support we smile “Venceremos Hermana”. The judge with her dyed white hair and black rim glasses, stares coldly at "Nuestra Raza". The doctor takes the stand; he speaks in medical terms we are all confused with his rhetoric. The social worker with that “Mrs. Olsen” smile states she is “only doing what is best for the children” calls one twin Polly (Originally Paulina). The worker again with her smile swears under oath, continuing her treacherous accusations influencing the minds of those ready to prosecute our Raza! La madre de los quates takes the stand, “I don’t know why she (the worker) won’t even let me hold my twins, why she (worker) didn’t notify me about my child's needed operation until my child was in the hospital and they needed only my signature to operate. I want my girls she (worker) has no right to keep me from my twins.” Otra madre con ocho niños in tears, she waits for someone to explain to her (she speaks Spanish only) “Why, why? did the police take my baby away (a 14-month old boy). Yo soy buena madre. Yo quiero mucho a mis hijos. Por qué? mi niño, mi niño!” Child injured by fall from stairs December 73, hospitalized for eight days. Doctors at Denver General claim child brutality. April 5, 1974, almost three months later, social worker and police are sent to pick up the child. “Por qué entran a mi casa como si yo fuera criminal?” Mother tearfully exclaims, while her mind continuously tormented by the separation of her youngest child. Still in another courtroom another child custody case is being tried; the competent look in our hermana’s eyes, she hugs her child (social worker looks on). A Raza law student represents our hermana. He questions her (the mother), the child is also questioned and she too answers with confidence. The judge enters, and the city attorney calls the social worker as his first witness, “I called the home, and was told by the children that the mother had gone to the store; I figured something was wrong, so I called the police. The children were hysterical and alone.” After questioning by the law student, it was learned later that the children were hysterical because the police insisted they (the children) put their coats on and would be going away with them! Gracias to the Raza law student: the mother was given back custody of her three children. This is what is going on in the juvenile courts: children are placed in foster homes on Doctors’ reports; children were examined and termed “dirty” with bruises they interpret this as child brutality in their blue eyes. Doctors, nurses, social workers, and community aides plant a bad seed and bring false charges against our Gente. Again we must pay for the so called “responsible" agencies blunders for not responding to past reports on actual child brutality cases! Typical of agency robots, now they over-react with their hopeless consciousness and victimize innocent Gente! Those primarily harassed are Chicana women. The issues of Welfare injustice must be exposed. If your child has been kidnapped by Child Welfare, contact Chicana Welfare Rights at 573-9223 located temporarily at West Side Legal Aid, 820 Santa Fe Drive. We are a voluntary group focusing on the issues of welfare pertaining to Raza women. If you are aware of someone unjustly denied their rights, or have had their children taken away without reasonable cause, or their parental rights violated, have them contact us immediately. We are documenting cases to legally pursue a Class Action suit. We are finding out as mujeres that we must organize our carnales y carnalitas and expose the child custody (welfare) department. It is truly devised to separate familias and breed the gringo institutionalized mentalities. Using their gringo middle-class "W.A.S.P." standards to justify their claims that "Chicano" children are neglected in order to herd our children into foster homes and SLAUGHTER our Gente’s PRIDE and Dignity by their legal Technicalities. All this in the name for the betterment of Society Their Society. With the power and control of the judicial system the Gov’t has it down pat! Jointly the social worker and the police department play a major part in the destruction of our Raza's familia ties with written rhetorical reports, usually biased, unfactual information submitted to the judge who then bases his decisions on these types of statements. “After all who's to question a fully qualified social worker with a Master’s Degree, a uniformed cop, or a doctor’s testimony? These people are professionals in oppressive education and know how to play and control the wheel of social progress, they are the webs”, that continue to entrap our Raza and all oppressed people! VENCEREMOS! Chicana Welfare Rights Org.