MAP Seeks Applicants
For people of migrant, rural, or seasonal agricultural backgrounds who sincerely want to acquire a university education and cannot attend because of financial deprivation, the Migrant Action Program (MAP) at the University of Colorado (Boulder) is the place to contact. MAP, in existence since 1968, strives at educating and sending back into the community competent and better qualified people. Approximately 25 will graduate in May with degrees in business, sociology, recreation, political science and Spanish. MAP originated in 1968 with 23 rural Mexican American students from the San Luis Valley. The program has now grown to 268 students. Most of the original 23 students have since received degrees and are now following their respective careers. MAP by structure is jointly administered by students professionals. It has three and one-half professional members in its overall staff. Coordinator Ricardo Martinez, Academic Advisor George Hernandez, and one full-time and one half time
secretary. The student staff consists of a director, co-director, counselor supervisor, and various activities chairmen who provide t student services. Financial aid is computed on individual needs and varies depending on individual student status. Few students have dropped out because of deficient financial aid. However it is helpful for potential students to clear up their debts before becoming students. Housing is provided for the student when he first arrives at the university. Tutoring, counselling, and other services are provided during the academic year. MAP brings in most students during the summer program which is geared to give the pew student an orientation or the familiarity essential to prepare the student for his stay at the university. Students who have received GED’s or who have been out of school for a number of years, find the MAP summer controlled courses beneficial in adjusting to scholastic work. These summer courses in the past have consisted of the basics in English, sociology, and math, and are designed to
prepare the student to compete on a more equal level with the general population. A reading and study skills course is also provided for the student encountering difficulty with studying habits. This course can be taken in the summer or in the fall depending on how long the student has been out of school and how he has progressed with the summer courses. The 1975 summer program will start in June, 1975, and applications should be sent in as early as possible with a deadline of March 1, 1975. Accordingly, the MAP recruiting department is now in the process of contacting people throughout the state who are not aware of the educational opportunity provided by MAP and the University of Colorado. Primary consideration will be given to those educationally and economically deprived applicants from rural cultural backgrounds. Applications can be obtained at the: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO. MIGRANT ACTION PROGRAM. Willard Administrative Center, Room 223, Boulder, Colorado 80302
I am interested in applying for admissions into the University of Colorado, Boulder Campus, under the Migrant Action Program. Please send me an application for admission and the information which I will need to qualify. Name of Student Phone No. Last First Middle Home Mailing Address Street or P.O. Box City State Zip Code Have you ever attended a college? Yes No Are you: Self-supporting Supported by Parents Single Married Divorced Widowed Veteran
