In the spotlightIn the Spotlight: Bi-Lingual Hi-cultural Dispute “Lost to our land, education is our stand. " The Boulder County School Board has turned down a proposal to institute Bi-lingual, Bi-cultural Education in the Boulder County School District. This decision has aroused much dissatisfaction and concern with community parents. Realizing that Chicanos and Anglos alike are deprived of learning the original language and cultural aspects of the southwest, school districts throughout the state and nation have begun to institute such programs. Why then, does the Boulder School Board choose to ignore the necessity of such a program? The Board otters many reasons but none legitimate. The Board concerned itself with the financial aspects as one reason for not accepting the proposal. It was explained that the program would be federally funded for the first two years. The Board also claimed that they did not want to disrupt the community among their staff to bring in bilingual teachers. Surprisingly, the "intelligently" satisfied Board even questioned the possibility of learning impairment imposed upon the children due to the learning of another language. (Editor’s note: The following is an excerpt Train the Bi-lingual, Bi-cultural proposal submitted by Ricardo Garcia and Mrs. Treadwell to the Boulder County School Board.) It is the philosophy in the Bilingual-Bicultural Program that every child has a right to quality education. This means we must meet the needs of each individual child by looking at him as the most important commodity. We must take the child, regardless of the language of his home, and give him instruction in whichever language is necessary so that he will attain academic success and all those experiences which will give him a positive feeling about himself. It is the goal of the educational program to allow each child to "become to help the bilingual child touch the outer limits of his languages." Bilingual-Bicultural education offers immediate help for the child whose dominant language is not English. For these children, this type of educational program will: Prevent "educational gapping". Because the child learns the skills and concepts he needs to be successful in whichever language he best understands.Preserve the child's sense of history, culture, identity and language. He no longer has to feel shame and frustration because the school will not recognize his heritage.Make certain that the child learns English. But he learns English as a second language as it is taught to someone who speaks no English at all. At some time during his schooling, the child will make the transition to where he will be able to function well in English. And he will retain and become more literate in his native tongue.In short, the child is working at becoming a competent user of English. In order to operate effectively in the English-speaking United States, he must be competent in the language. He is also becoming more proficient in Spanish. Most important, because of all these things. HE IS FEELING SUCCESSFUL.Bilingual-Bicultural Programs take into account the importance of the Spanish language and culture, for the Anglo-American child. Children are learning about each other’s language, culture and history. All are learning these at no expense of subject matter.While not viewed as a panacea for all the ills of society, bilingual-bicultural education should in the long run go a long way toward improving understanding between ethnic groups in the United States. When language and culture are understood and practiced, fears break down and understanding begins.