Mundo Tercer—3rd worldBlood moneyThe military junta that overthrew the Popular Unity government last September has received nearly $lOO million per month in “financial assistance” from the same U.S. banks and governmental agencies that cut off vital credit lines to the constitutional government of Salvador Allende. Junta representatives appeared in Washington earlier this month on a special economic mission to obtain more aid. Led by Fernando Leniz, the junta's top economic advisor, the mission included a section headed by Julio Philippi to hold discussions with all the U.S. corporations nationalized by the UP government. Leniz returned to Santiago last week and declared that he had obtained $95 million worth of “emergency standby" credits from the International Monetary Fund and another $1 3 million from the World Bank. This is in addition to the more than $250 million line of credit extended by two separate banking syndicates which include Chase Manhattan, First National City Bank, Bank of America, Manufacturers Hanover Trust, Bankers Trust, Irving Trust and several Canadian banks. The massive new credits are accompanied by official descriptions of the Chilean economy comparing it with post-war Europe. In keeping with this theme, the Associated Press (AP) ran a recent story referring to the “Little Marshall Plan" operation for Chile. The new loans are being used to support the junta’s policy of transferring socialized and nationalized properties back to the previous owners. This has benefitted many U.S. corporations, such as Ford Motor, Dow Chemical, ITT, and has opened the way for renewed penetration of U.S. capital into the Chilean economy.The countries in the First group, who are opposed to any kind of U.S. paternalism in its relations to Latin America were responsible for defeating Henry Kissinger's pre-conference proposals. Kissinger wanted to include on the agenda a discussion of the socalled energy crisis and of the world political situation. It is generally agreed here that by refusing to take these subjects up, Latin America declared its independence in these matters. Kissinger will therefore be unable to "speak for Latin America" in post-conference discussions with other countries. The points the conference delegates did discuss included: cooperation for development, including financing and investments; collective economic security; Latin American opposition to multinational corporations which use their power to attack the developing nations in which they operate; the restructuring of the OAS to include Cuba; and evaluation of U.S.Latin American relations. The continent's more reactionary regimes, some of whom owe their very existence to the United States, do not share the other countries independent attitude. Asked by Prensa Latina correspondent about this issue, Ismael Huerta, Foreign Minister of the Chilean junta, replied tersely, "I expect Chilean interest to coincide with those of the United States." Cuba has fared better than Chile in the pre-conference statements by the ministers as they arrived. When pro-junta Chilean journalists asked Mexico's Foreign Minister Emilio Rabasa to explain the attacks on the junta by the Mexican press, he replied, "We cannot control the people’s feelings."A little later Cost Rican Foreign Minister Gonzalo Facio told Channel 9 newsmen "If Cuba did send arms to the Allende government, it was not an act of intervention but of collaboration." His statement was a direct rebutal to Chile’s Huerta who used the alleged arms shipments to back his country's position that Cuba not be readmitted to the OAS.Costa Rica was somewhat of a surprise champion of Cuba at the Mexico City meeting. In another press statement Gonzalo Facio supported the unilateral withdrawal of the U.S. military base at Guantanamo. “We do not believe that there should be bases of one country in another without the full agreement of the latter,” he said. Speaking of the economic boycott, he added, “whether or not they were justified at the time, they are not justified now, and they must therefore be lifted.”