Editorials
LRU serving community needs
Since September of 1972, when El Partido la Raza Unida became a national political party, the question has been posed, “What is the role of an independent political party within the Chicano movement?" Will la Raza Unida become the third head of the two headed monster? Early this month the party’s state steering committee met and discussed exactly what separates El Partido la Raza Unida from the other political parties. According to various spokespersons, members of la Raza Unida have come to realize that the wealth of this country is controlled by large corporate interests which finance and control the politicians who run the government for the benefit of the corporate interests, as shown by Watergate and the downfall of the Nixon Regime. They have come to realize elections and political campaigns are only a farce in which the public is given the illusion that because they “elect" puppet politcians they “control’’ the government Knowing this, la Raza Unida does not choose to imitate the two major parties. They know that pushing the lever in a voting booth will not eliminate the poverty, racism and oppression inherent in the philosophies this and consciences of this nation. Rather el Partido realizes the changes that are needed in this country are revolutionary changes that can only be made when the masses of our people are organized to take their destiny into their own hands, no longer willing to wait for politicians to come as saviors with their guiding
lights of solutions to all problems. Faced with the obscene ugliness of reality, la Raza Unida chooses to conduct its political campaigns on the priority of exposing the truth ot the problems that affect our people. By addressing itself to these problems la Raza Unida is involved in an educational process to create the awareness of the necessity of uncompromising struggle against all institutions that oppress Chicanos and all humanity. An example of an issue becoming more and more prominent in the U.S. today is the Mexican workers without papers who are being harassed by the immigration authorities and are being made the scapegoat for U.S. economic problems. As a party that does not recognize the “borders" carved into Raza by the imperialistic government while recognizing that these brothers are gente who have been forced to leave their land in order to make a living north of home because U.S. corporate interests control the economic and political welfare of their homeland, la Raza Unida sees the necessity to address itself to this problem as an alternative to the two party system that advocates forced control and deportation of all Brown people. El Partido la Raza Unida is not the kind of party that works to win elections. Rather it is the kind of party which is developing on a continuing basis and trying to meet the needs of Chicanos on a daily basis. Unlike other parties, when the elections are over, la Raza Unida will continue to campaign for struggle.
