El Centro a community center that works

El Centro Comunidad de Lafayette is like any other neighborhood action center which offers a number of services to local Lafayette citizens, but more than that, “El Centro is something that teenagers can identify with,” a spokesman for the center said. The local teenagers are credited for the success of the center in terms of participation in school and community projects. These projects were arranged and are sponsored by El Centro. Danny Escalante, a drug counselor for El Centro, explained that a recent arrangement was made with the local high school to begin an innovative tutorial program. The tutors are high school students who are having difficulties with their studies. They, in turn, are given the opportunity to tutor and counsel children in the elementary level. "The idea is to raise the tutors’ self-image. What we do is tell the tutor that he is important and can do the job well, and in so doing he

feels good about himself,” Escalante said. The tutors are paid and simultaneously receive high school credits. El Centro Comunidad de Lafayette, in conjunction with the county courts, have developed a work program for juvenile probation cases. The program works as follows: If a youth is granted probation and fined by the courts, he is given the option of paying the fine or working it off at the center. Escalante cited a case in which a 17 -year old girl was caught shoplifting. She was fined and chose to work at the center. “She was exposed to a Chicano cultural environment and it can be a good alternative to standard probation,” Escalante said. The Lafayette Youth Task Force is a highly recognized organization within the city of Lafayette that is sponsored by the center. Its function is to feed information, mostly community problems, into city council and other policy makers.. Aside from working with local teenagers, the center provides drug, alcohol, mental health and marriage counseling. Legal and welfare assistance is also available. Escalante explained that volunteers, juvenile case referrals, and members of the Neighborhood Youth Corp, help with the many projects that El Centro is involved with.

The four room center has an array of Chicano murals displayed-on the walls and also has a small library with books on Chicano culture and heritage. “El Centro is a place where teenagers can come and learn about their culture and heritage and also express themselves through art,” Escalante said. The center offered its services to the citizens for the first time in 1971 when funds were received from the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO). The money is used to pay the director, purchase office supplies, and pay the rent ’ Future plans include the eventual control of the center by the community and, since OEO support in the future is dim, requests for money to different foundations is now being considered. They also want to expand and eventually have temporary quarters for those in need of a place to stay. Since El Centro Comunidad de Lafayette is a non-profit organization, it depends solely on contributions from OEO, volunteers and donations. “We welcome donations of food, clothing and of course money.” Escalante said. Those that volunteer at least a little of their time are assured of a rewarding experience he added. For further information. 