Letter from a pinto Gente:Well, I was walking down the back alley of my cell block, when I ran into the March issue of El Diario! It was a great relief to read about the familiar faces in the Teatro, and other items. A relief in away that it brought me out of the slump IÕve been falling into here, at this hell-hole! 1 can handle the time here; what is hard is the memories of my time in Boulder! I was free there and 1 had the world at my fingertips. What happened? Que paso? Dope! Heroin!! I quit school, got involved in the traffic of heroin and crime. Sure, I had money, clothes, everything, but I lost the respect of my most loved friends there; I lost my education, the only thing that is vitally important to me, even now! So much for hard stories, the message here is for my carnales who are there now, and just getting into the scene there; those who are going the same route that I did. It's not worth it. no matter how appealing it may seem, or how high you get, the man uses you twice over! First he gives you the Dope, and then one way or the other he sees that you are put in a place like this. Here is a poem that best describes the feelings I would like to say in this letter. Maybe you can publish it in your next issue. Heroin Behold my friends for I am ¥ Heroin. Known to all the destroyer of man. From whence I come, no one Knows, For I come from the land. Where the poppy seed grows. Whole nations have gathered To plot my destruction For I'm the breeder of crime And corruption. I first entered this country Without a passport. Ever since I've been hunted And sought By pushers and dealers and Plain clothes Dicks, Mostly by addicts who need A quick fix! To all kinds of people I find My way. From doctors to lawyers, to Children at play!I can take world beauties and Make them forget their looks, I can take a school boy and Make him forget his Books! Am I not a God, a king to Behold? More precious than diamonds. More treasured than gold? So you would like to hear More of the things I can do The women I have delighted. The men I have slew. I can take a man from his Children and wife And put him in prison for the Rest of his life! So while you're lying in your cell Plotting your fate. Remember I'll be waiting outside The gate. Run if you must. IÕll never Give chaseBut as sure as I'm heroin. You'll be back for a taste. I gave you my warning And you didn't take heed. So put your foot in my Stirrup and mount my steed. Sit tight in your saddle And ride me well. For the white horse of Heroin shall ride you To Hell! Please tell my carnales to freeze on the stuff. Take my word. I've been through it all. Everything! Todo! I have to go now, my cell door is opening. If anyone there gets a chance, write to me or come and visit. Editors note. As a matter of respecting the privacy of the author of this letter, we have withheld his name. However, anyone interested in knowing who he is and would like to write to him. may you find this information in our office, UMC 416.