Why not ask Pintos about prison reform?Recently there has been plenty of lip service paid to the “prison problem" the state-wide grand jury has decided that what is needed is more professional guards and public control of the corrections system; the state legislature, after token debate, has attempted to resurrect the death penalty; and the governor; in the true tradition of Easter, has washed his hands of the Jose Gaitan case. All of this talk and no action has led the public to believe the problems are being dealt with, but. in reality, the talk has served largely to drown out the voices of those who probably know the most about the "prison problem" the pintos. Since the tragedy at Attica, and before, victims of the penal system have attempted to make themselves heard, but the price has always been high. Advocates for prison reform have been effectively eliminated by what ever means available to those in power. The price for speaking out ranges from time in the “hole” to mysterious suicides. In Colorado, Jose Gaitan has been one of the leaders in the prison reform movement. He was the first to implicate former Acting Warden Fred Wyse. who has since been indicted by the grand jury for requisitioning prison supplies and foodstuffs for the personal use of the warden and other staff members. For his courage in speaking out against a corrupt system. Gaitan has been given an additional two years before he is eligible for parole. The Governor's office investigated the charge that Gaitan was being punished for exposing Wyse, but the investigation "failed to reveal any evidence to substantiate the charge.' Strange affair The strange part about the whole affair is Gaitan was granted parole in 1972 to take the directorship of the Colorado PintoProject. A month before he was to be released, he and another inmate were indicted for murdering a fellow inmate. Eventually the charges were dropped, but in the intervening time, Gaitan's parole was revoked. During this period, the Wyse affair was exposed. The way things now stand, Gaitan will be paroled in 1976, unless he receives the public support he seeks. Gaitan is not giving up. He is part of a program the Crime Prevention Team Program which is lending more than lip service to the prison problem. He and a group of other inmates have attempted to utilize their own prison experiences to benefit other potential criminals. Recently this El Diario reporter was present at one of the programs presented by the Crime Prevention Team. The program was presented by Gaitan. Joe Scheer and Edgar Story in Eaten. Colorado. Paradox in prison Gaitan discussed the paradox of the prison system. "If you commit a crime they put you in prison because ‘you acted abnormally.' Then they put you into the most abnormal situation known to mankind; they take away your liberty your wife and then they pat you on the back and tell you to act normally." According to the pintos. the Crime Prevention Team is attempting to keep others from making the same mistakes they made. Scheer, a Pat Boone lookalike. said he wished he had had the opportunity to talk with people who had done time before he became involved in crime. "The only people I talked to who had been to prison were guys who told me "how to do a better score or to get some stronger dope." Story, a Black who wears a tiny gold cross in his left ear. said he didn't believe in giving advice. “We just draw a picture of ourselves and if the kids we talk to can draw a parallel between our lives and theirs they know they're going to end up in prison." School for crime He gave credence to the belief that prison makes better criminals out of men rather than reforming them. He was first sent up when he was 15, he said, and he didn’t know anything about crime. "But, in prison. I learned to pick locks and shoot dope. When 1 got out I went back to high school. The first thing I did was see if I could open the lockers. 1 found I could open every locker in the school." All of the inmates charged the prison officials with insensitivity. Story told about an incident where a friend was informed about his father's death the daybefore the funeral. "His sister had called several days earlier, but it just slipped the guard's mind." The inmate didn't get to go to the funeral "they really care," Story added sarcastically. Not only is the system insensitive. it has its priorities turned around the inmates charged. "They'll pay a guy 60 cents a day for driving a tractor, but if he tries to better himself by going to school, he only gets 20 cents a day,” Story said. They agreed that a prisoner needs the 60 cents a day just to buy the basics soap, shaving lotion and tooth paste. The pintos in the Crime Prevention Team have little to gain from the project. Most of them are long timers and lifers. For those who do get out, there is one thought not to return. According to Gaitan. inmates in the program return to prison at a rate of I I percent, which is compared to an overall average of 67 percent for the entire prison population. That figure in itself indicates that they might be on to something. "I'm not going to say we don’t need prisons. Gaitan said, but we don't need these kinds of prisons." Anyone wishing to schedule the pintos for a speaking engagement should contact the Crime Prevention Teams at the Colorado State Penitentiary.