Former students still active in movementby Len AvilaMany people have said that the Chicano student movement is dead. They have said that students are caught up by the false promises of a college degree. I can believe that this is true, in many cases, but we must look at the entire situation. There are many problems which affect the Chicano students such as, financial- (or the lack of it), Dope (LSD, Marijuana, Heroin, etc ), housing (or the lack of it), and many others. A student comes to the college campus not knowing the "jungle” which he is entering. A student comes not understanding the pitfalls of an affluent society. The students are very much like the sardines which are easily swallowed by the shark without never knowing their false existence inside the stomach of the shark until it is too late. No one can change the existence of students themselves. No one critic from the outside can change the university but the students from within the university. The student movement is most important, while it is not the backbone of the struggle, it is still an important part of the puzzle. Many former Chicano students are now actively participating in the movement. Florencio (Freddy) Granado who now runs el Escritor (a Denver Chicano newspaper) was a not too distant La Raza Unida Candidate. Granado was formerly the Farm Labor Task Force Chairman at CU and later went on to be President of UMAS, plus he was a MAP student. Another MAP student Ricardo Falcon, the organizer of MACHO, left the University to become an effective organizer in Fort Lupton until his death in 1972. Jose Calderon, former ASUC Vice-President, is now the State Chairman of La Raza Unida and a community organizer in Greeley. Ramon Vera, a former UMAS student has been an organizer for the Farmworkers Union and now is the editor of the AHORA news magazine. Many students activity does not stop at the college but continues on when they return to their community. Students today are much more political then , they were 8 years ago, but they could be much more active. The potential is always there but lately it has been fully realized. Today students must become more active in order to insure their own freedom. Th“ Universities like society are constantly testing our ability to defend ourselves. They are just waiting for us to relax so that our hard fought freedom (programs) will be taken away. Students coming out of the mouth of this shark (universities) are veterans. While the University is not exactly like a regular community, it serves well as a testing ground for our ideologies and organizational abilities. While students are at the University they must realize that they are at an important crossroad in their lives. Students must decide whether to become involved in the struggle for freedom or to accept the shark and its false promises and dreams. It has been said time and again that freedom can not be bought but that it must be struggled for and won! Only students can help other students to free themselves we must all be fisherman so that the sardines might have a chance against the sharks. After school, and later we must continue the role of students and learn from the poor our barrios so that we might serve them well. As long as we remain students of life and continue to learn from each other we will thus become stronger and more united. UNIDOS SIEMPRE UNIDOS VENCEREMOS