LUCIO CABANS: THIRD COMMUNIOUE
LUCIO CABANAS: THIRD COMMUNIQUE Following the publication of the third communique "Of the Party of the Poor, on the of Senator Figueroa, &e Mexican government unleashed in full force and ferocity its murderous pack of wolves, that is, the Mexican army an army of assassins which has been serving for the last fifty years as an instrument of repression against the Mexican people themselves. By this action, the "PRI" (Party of Institutionalized Revolution) government has proved that they have not the slightest interest in preserving the life of a man who only a few hours earlier they had held up to the Mexican people as an example for them to follow. Everybody knows there is honor even among thieves, but the Mexican government doesn't hesitate a moment to sacrifice a member of their gang of corrupt criminals and exploiters, if they •can manage by this means to defend their bastard interests. Previously, little had been known about what is happening in Guerrero. News has come out, announcing the death of dozens of soldiers, and then later there had been silence, but without any official denial of it. Through the government's very own puppet press it had been known that the situation of the campesinos of the region is alarming. They are not allowed to go to their own fields, nor even to go out to purchase food in the more populated towns. Hunger has begun to increase in the mountains while the army monopolizes the food for their own use and maintains a tight martial law in all areas. From this distance, it appears obvious that the army's blockade has failed, as well as have the tortures and bestialities with which the state and federal judicial ' police have tried to undermine the solidarity and fighting spirit of the campesinos of Guerrero to make them betray the ones whom they clearly consider their defender and ally: the popular army headed by Lucio Cabanas, the armed branch of the "Party of the Poor", the only truly leftist party which can say that it represents and forms an actual part of the oppressed people. The lack of current news has caused reporters in their drive to fill space in the newspapers to revive events that the government had been trying to bury, and to forget them . . . deeds of such a nature that they seem to have been drawn from stories of the behavior of the assassins of the North American armies against the people of Indochina, but that are a hard and bloody reality in Mexico at this very moment. Accusations of villages burned by the army with all their inhabitants shot to death by bullets when they tried to escape the fire. Gangrapes of children and women of Guerrero. Forty-some campesinos put in jail for the simple reason that their names are Cabanas like that of the guerrilla commander. Dropping napalm bombs with the intent to start forest fires, thus applying the "scorched earth" policy used by every imperialist since the ancient Romans up to and including the imperialism of the Yankee assassins . . . deeds all of which only serve, in spite of the suffering they cause, to enflame ever more the spirits of the people of Guerrero and to prepare them with even more zeal to destroy this vile system of robbery, corruption and exploitation. LONG LIVE THE PARTY OF THE POOR! LONG LIVE THE BATTLE OF THE MEXICAN PEOPLE. LIBERTY OR DEATH.
The Third Communique From Lucio Cabanas The hills of Guerrero, Mexico June 19, 1974 TO THE OPINION OF THE PEOPLE: As we have said in previous communiques. Senator Ruben Figueroa is being held as a hostage, as we demand, prior to his release, the withdrawal of all troops, police and secret agents, whether in uniform or in plain clothes, from the muncipal districts of San Jeronimo, Tecpan, Coyuca de Benitez and Atoyac de Alvarez, as a pre-condition for beginning the arrangements for his liberation. In spite of this demand, troops continue to pursue us in the mountains and'disguise themselves as civilians to get food from the villagers. Hcrmcnegildo Cuenca (the Chief of the Armed Forces) is lying when he claims to have called his criminal troops into their barracks, and when he says that nobody has been arrested; the Army and the Judicial Police Forces, on behalf of Cuenca Diaz and of Nogueda Otero (chief of the Judicial Police) are obstructing communications; the failure of the military to vacate these four municipal areas, the arrest and torture of Alejandro Gomez and Meliton Ramos, who are beiiig forced to act as local guides for the army in the mountains —for they were seen with the troops on the 16th of June in the village of Rio Santiago this proves he lies. Besides, there are troops in La Palma, in Tepetixtla. in Santo Domingo, in Pie de la Cuesta. Plan de los Molinos. El Salto. El Camaron. San Juan de los. In spite of this situation, in this communique, we shall make public the requirements that the government must comply with after the military evacuation. If we have decided to publish them in advance, it is because we want the people and all revolutionary forces within the population to know and to see clearly the need for the removal of all troops and police forces. Here are the requirements
TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
 First it must delivery to us in the mountains the political prisoners on the list and according to the procedures which we shall indicate. Second the government must deliver to us fifty million pesos in damages, (approximately four million U.S. dollars). Third government must deliver to u$ one hundred M-l rifles each with two 30-round ammunition clips; and also fifty 9mm. Browning pistols, each with two ammunition clips.  Fourth: The recorded speeches and folk songs of our comrades must be broadcast throughout the nation.
Fifth: (a) the list of requirements drawn up by the students of the rural normal schools for teachers must be totally and favorably resolved at once; (b) and the demands made by the women workers in the Medalla de Oro" shirt factory in Monterrey must be fully satisfied; (c) Formal legal title must be given to the campesinos who have taken over their lands and sufficient agricultural credit must be made available to them for the cultivation ,of their land; (d) all machinery, buildings, lands and other property of the "Mexican Coffee Institute" must pass into the control of the Indians of the village communes to be held as their communal property; (e) all lumber company contracts must be declared void and cancelled, their equipment must be expropriated and turned over to each village commune. and members of the communes and lumber company workers must be recompensed as they themselves shall determine.



TO THE STATE GOVERNMENT
First All jails of the State of Guerrero must be opened, after the federal government has released all political prisoners, so that all ordinary prisoners may be set free.
Second The debts owed by the coconut-pickers to the regional political boss (Lucio Rios of the town of El Espinalillo), shall* be forgiven them. For this purpose, the government of the state shall deliver the money equal to the total debt to the members of the village communes so that they can pay these debts. 4cThird Wilfrido Castro Contreras shall be removed from his position as chief of the judicial police of Acapulco. The photographs, names and home addresses of the judicial police who. in the month of March of this year in the village of San Martin de las Flores, beat up men and women and raped a young woman who was engaged to be married at that time, shall be published. These are our requirements, and upon the fulfillment of each of them depends the life of the agent of the middle-class senator Ruben Figueroa Figueroa. This communique and the two previous ones must be read on ail radio stations in every state of the federation, and on all national radio networks, as well as on channels 2. 4. 5 K and 13 ol television. They must be read on two different days. The first will be the 25th of this month at eight o'clock at night on the radio, and at ten until twelve midnight on the television channels. The second day will be the 26th of this month on the radio at eight o'clock in the morning and on the television LONG LIVE THE STRUGGLE OF THE POOR. LONG LIVE THE SOCIALIST revolution: DEATH TO THE PRI the government in power) and TO THE SELFISH MIDDLE class: Signed on behalf of the Farm-Workers* Brigade for Adjustment of the Parly of the PoorLucio Cabanas Barrientos Isidro Castro Fuentes Enrique Velazquez Tierra Agosta Alvares Rios Jose Luis Ortiz diego

