Give Regents back to community people
Has there ever been a candidate who advocates in his campaign the divesture of the power in the office he is seeking, that would lead to the eventual phasing out and restructuring the position entirely? Roberto “Che” Luera, el Partido la Raza Unida candidate for the University of Colorado Board of Regents in the 1st congressional district is such a candidate.
Luera wants to inject community control into the Board of Regents, something he believes is non-existent on the present Board. “They are not representing local and student interests. They are promoting and facilitating large corporate interests and influences," he said, “ and for that reason I would like to get away from the Regents’ concept altogether and form a decision making board with community control." “A local board composed equally of faculty, students, and community people should be established. This way, all decisions would be made based on information and in the best interests of the entire educational community rather than a select few of elites.” Luera said he would be pleased to relinquish his position, if elected, if his plan was implemented, but would be willing to sit on the local board if the community reelected him. He ascertained, however, the chances of his community control proposal being adopted as being slight to none, only a little worse than his chances for the Regent’s post. But that’s not important to him.
Not Politicos “We’re (himself and Arturo "Bones” Rodriguez, the other el Partido la Raza Unida Regents’ candidate) not politicos. We’re only teachers of our people. Our entire campaign is only an attempt to educate our people. “We’re not looking for positions for ourselves. “Historically Chicanos have been deprived of higher education. We know the problems that have caused our people to be relegated to a ‘second class citizen status' and now we’re trying to inform the community how the corporate structure controls the institutions of higher learning and this state. "We’re trying to expose the system and its methods. Even if we won, the most we could do at this time as a Regent is be an influencer, constantly reminding the rest of the Board of the grass roots community.” Luera expressed his personal interests of upgrading the quality of education for Chicanos. His approach is to develop an elaborate bilingual/bicultural program that includes an in depth study of preColombian, Mezo-American,
Mexican and North American history, along with an analysis of existing political systems. “We have been raped of our language. I would like to see the local vernacular of Spanish; in depth studies of tribal languages, cultures, and contributions to the world; analyses of how Indians were raped by the Spanish language, religion, and culture; events that led up to the revolt of 1810 in Mexico; studies of Chicano poets, writers, dancers, and performers; and contemporary studies of the Chicano movement from within the movement incorporated into every bilingual/bicultural program. Get Involved Luera believes all minority programs should be completely controlled by the respective minority. Every organization
should have a governing collective vested with the power to decide programs, methods, expenditures, and staff, he said. But students have to get out into the community and do some work, he insisted. “My message to students is get involved in whatever actions have to be taken," something his campaign exemplifies. “I'm not running for myself pier se. I’m running for the movement. A vote for el Partido la Raza Unida is negating the Democratic and Republican parties, the two headed monster. “A vote for la Raza Unida is a vote for the Chicano movement. It’s a vote for what the Chicano movement is saying and doing . . . it’s gente saying we see it as it is and we’re looking and voting for our own selves.” The former UMAS student is presently a Spanish instructor and director of El Teatro Chicano de Aztlan at Escuela y Colegio Tlatelolco in Denver.
Roberto Luera
