Have they died in vain?
The past week has been by tar the most traumatic Boulder s Chicano community has ever experienced. Six people, all ot them activists, have died a horrible death. All were young, and all were deeply involved in a scheme to end human suffering. Reyes Martinez was a people's lawyer many times going hungry because he asked no money to his clients. Neva Romero lived almost day to day tor her people. Her activities were centered mostly around children. Freddie Granado worked with his community to bring about social change. The former UMAS President persisted to bringing about the Dimanna recall when others gave up. Una Jaa kola’s goal was to become an activist attorney and worked daily to achieve that goal. Heriberto Teran a former UMAS student, struggled to brief, an end to corrupt, unjust prison conditions. Francisco Dougherty , a Chicano from Texas, worked with his community to bring justice to all peoples. To date no one is certain how or why these people were killed. The law enforcement agencies and mass media speculate that all were assembling bombs that were destined for targets within Boulder. A more credible theory is that which the Chicano community maintains. They contend that the six were targets ot a third party conspiracy to murder political activists. Anyone who knew the six would contend the same. Unlikely as it may seem, suppose these people were assembling bombs. One should do what the liberals in the community are obviously not doing. Ask yourself, what would lead an individual struggling to end human suffering to construct a bomb, select a target, and risk not only his or her life, but that of an entire movement as well. Only the violence of the system reflective by the anger and frustration in an individual combating daily the most vicious, racist beast in existence could take the blame. Concurrent with the bombings was the peaceful occupation of TB-I. Many have ridiculously tried to connect both incidents. I he truth may never be known. One thing is known, the occupation was needlessly prolonged for 19 days. The administration. Joe Franco and Paul Acosta indirectly are to blame. On the second day of the occupation the students were willing to accept the same proposal that was accepted at the end. Many feel that had Franco and Acosta not been irresponsible administrators. Neva Romero. Reyes Martinez. Freddie Granado, and many more would not have been in Boulder. Neva would have been in Ignacio where she was already a week late to begin work with the element of society she loved most children, but was committed to seeing the UMAS Program become responsive to her people. Freddie would have been in Denver where his people badly needed him. but chose instead to come in solidarity with the occupants of TB-I to speak at a rally. May the consciouses of the Franco’s and Acosta’s and Rivera s never forget this.

