Franco, Acosta resign-
Inquiry board will continue
Co-Directors. Juan Espinosa, and Kris Gutierrez, of the UMASEOP have resumed the duties of the program for the summer, following the resignation of former director. Joe Franco and Assistant Director. Paul Acosta, on June 16. Resignations were prompted at the fourth session of the UMAS-EOP Board of Inquiry, when both Franco and Acosta accepted a resolution adopted by the Inquiry Board, calling for their resignation. Before allegations could be summarized, the Inquiry Board passed by a 4-1 vote, a resolution with the following provisions: Since their effectiveness has been seriously impaired at UMAS-EOP. the University administration must appoint Joe Franco and Paul Acosta to other positions at the University of Colorado. Selection of a new director
and co-director for UMAS-EOP must be initiated with full student participation in the selection process. This resolution was agreed upon by Franco. Acosta and Chicano students. At a June 20 student and staff meeting, the students agreed to retain Juan Espinosa and Kris Gutierrez, acting interim codirectors to remain as co-directors for the remainder of the UMASEOP summer program. These codirectors cannot susede themselves as co-directors in the fall. It was also agreed upon that the codirectors would be advised of budgetary matters from an experienced budgetary advisor. James Corbridge appointed John Wong as a budgetary advisor to the UMAS-EOP program. The inquiry board was expanded following the Franco and Acosta's resignation to include
four students, two staff persons and one faculty person along with the other Board of Inquiry members, Pete Garcia. Jeanne Olguin, Fr. Tony Gutierrez. Fr. Joseph Lara, Charles Lohah. Stuart Takeuchi. Tom Vallejos, Angelo Velasquez and Jose Martinez. To study the program and make recommendations and suggestion to the Co-Directors on improving it, is now the purpose of the Board of Inquiry. These recommendations may include restructuring of the directorship and the entire UMAS-EOP program. This Board has attempted meeting but as board members have complained because of a lack of communication in regard to meeting's time and place the Board has not accomplished much, with the lack of attendance of board members.

