San Luis Colorado’s oldest town. Costilla and Conejos counties in the southern portion of the San Luis Valley are Colorado’s oldest settled areas. Enclosed by the Sangre de Cristo mountains to the east and the San Juan’s to the west, they are so different from the rest of the state you might think you had already crossed the border into New Mexico. Nearly 100 percent of the residents are bilingual, and it is unusual to find a village without an adobe church. Fort Garland is located 50 miles west of Walsenburg on Highway 160. The fort was established in 1858 to protect settlers in the valley and to harass the Indians. At one time there were 1,500 soldiers garrisoned at Fort Garland. It was abandoned in 1883, and since 1945 it has been restored by the State Historical Society. There are six one-story adobe buildings open to the public at the Fort. These include officers’ quarters, infantry and cavalry barracks. A display of photographs shows the fort as it looked in the 1880s and another how the restoration was done. The commandant’s quarters, though barren, have been furnished and given an idea of what they must have looked like when occupied, in one room life-sized wax figures portray Kit Carson, who commanded the fort from 1866 to 1867, talking things over with Ouray, chief of the Ute. One building on the site houses displays of early life in the valley, including that of the fur trappers, miners and Indians. Another shows graphically what occurred at the battle of La Glorieta Pass near Santa Fe in 1862 when Confederate troops were defeated in their attempt to push north to take over the Colorado gold fields. Another interesting part of the museum is the display in the soldiers’ theatre of early Southwest religious art, including paintings of various saints and elaborate crucifixes. The fort is open daily from 9 to 4:30, and admission is free. Sixteen miles south of Fort garland is San Luis, the oldest town in Colorado. Its full name is San Luis de la Culebra, the last word (“snake” in Spanish), referring to the mountain range of the same name lying just to the east. San Luis is a working community with little if any tourist business. Another interest is the Church of the Most Precious Blood, built in the early 1860s. The unpaved streets have been named bilingually, with Main Street leading through the downtown area and the Calle Del Gallo providing access to the back alleys.Colorado 152 leads out of San Luis to the southeast toward an isolated group of villages in Colorado. The largest is Chama, the smallest is San Francisco. They are alike in that they are 90 per cent adobe, extremely peaceful and very scenic (lying under the Culebra Range). However, there probably isn’t a better place in Colorado to get away from it all. West of San Luis, Colorado 142 crosses the valley between mesas, which passes a turquoise mine, and eventually connects with U.S. 285. South on 285 there is the town of Conejos, with the oldest and most interesting church in the region, Church of Our Lady of Guadalupe. This whole region is a delight to our cultural and historical pride of the Mestizo, so visit it if you can.