Board of Regents termed something to deal with’
Because “most of our people are in traditional institutions," Arturo “Bones” Rodriguez, el Partido La Raza Unida candidate for the University of Colorado Board of Regents, is campaigning for a post which he believes is in direct contradiction to the philosophies of his
party. Although it is a contradiction, it’s something that must be “dealt with,” the Chicano Studies instructor and former CU student says. ‘‘When you talk about the Board of Regents, you must realize you’re referring to corporate minds whose concern is designed to feed students into the corporate system of this country. “We’re still influenced by the system and the majority of our people have to deal with that system. We’re here to expose all levels of the ‘monster,’ Rodriguez said explaining the reason for his campaign, “because we have to take from the ‘monster’ things that are necessary for survival." He sees Chicanos in colleges as being at the last level of importance in education. "Most Chicano students are at the primary and secondary levels today, and for this reason, it’s important to educate those people who are going to be the influencers of those minds. We need educated people in the roles of teacher, community worker, and lawyer." But he is disappointed with the meagre attempts at establishing Chicano Studies programs in area schools. CU should have a major and a minor in Chicano Studies, and there should be parity with the state, he said, referring back to the previous 1975 goal of having minority enrollment at the different state institutions in direct proportion to that of the population. Papa Washington "This is important because many students are coming out of the University without an identity, knowing no history or culture, still thinking George Washington is their father and Thomas Jefferson is their mother.” “We need to eliminate all that erroneous anglicized history," he said. One way is based on a theory he suggested, trilingual education. “Because we are a Mestizo people, we are genetically made up of three cultures: Indio, Espanol, and North American (English-European concept). “We’ve always overlooked the Indian part of us, the most important part. In the future, we’re going to have to analyze and develop something to deal with our total being. I think it will be trilingual education." Rodriguez’ trilingual program would expand on the concept of bilingual/bicultural education, the current vogue. His proposal adds a third dimension, the inclusion of indigenous elements of language and culture to the bilingual format. “It would have to be a unique program, but it can be taught," he said. 260 Dialects “For example, look at North Vietnam. The people there speak their own native tongue as well as Vietnamese. In our own history we find about 260 dialects spoken in the region that spreads from Guatemala to northern Aztlan. Yet our ancestors communicated in a common language. Look at the fantastically beautiful cities they built. “It’s feasible to develop such a program. There’s one in its early stages at Tlatelolco (Escuela y Colegio Tlatelolco, an alternative Chicano school in Denver,, currently in its fifth year of operation). The kids are learning an indigenous language, conquered Spanish, and
conquered English at the same time. “In kindergarten, history, language (if it can be established), culture, and customs of the Olmecas are learned. The first grade is learning all the Mayan concepts. And you can see results. “The students at the primary level are much more pure, and susceptible to learning and understanding trilingually. You can teach them much more, and it’s easier than teaching older students." However, Rodriguez readily agreed implementation of his trilingual concept elsewhere would be a tremendously difficult task. But he countered, “Ii can be done if we want to accomplish it. We should want to do it because in order to be a full person, we’ll have to learn about our indigenous roots." Community Struggle He believes the strength of his campaign, as with the movement, is in the community, off the campuses, especially now because “the student movement is dead."
Rodriguez insists the daily issues must be confronted in the community. “The ivory tower makes it hard for the student to realize his role in the community and place himself in the community," he said, adding, "Some think they should wait four years before returning to their community. “It all depends on commitment." The Denver native is running at large which means he is a statewide candidate.
