Daily Camera or Cancer?I’ve often reflected on just what a tranquil little community Boulder appears to be, and on how easy it is to forget the problems Chicanos in Colorado face daily. However, I’m always brought slap back to reality by undoubtedly the worst, and most racist newspaper in Colorado, The Boulder Daily Cancer (Camera). The Daily Cancer is a malignant growth of outdated ideas, sloppy journalism, and outright racial hatred. ( The Cancer has done its best to distort news involving Chicanos for as long as I can remember. Examples? The Camera editorially condemned the old Human Relations Commission for endorsing the lettuce boycott (keep your noses out of Human problems, the Camera said.) The Camera erroneously reported that Chicano students demanded Governor John Vanderhoof fork over more money for other starving Chicano students (Let them eat tortillas, the Camera said.) The Camera purposely distorted, an auditor’s report on student fee spending at the University to read as an attack on Chicano student organizations (Get out of student government, the Camera said.) The latest attack came on a proposed bilingual program for Chicano students in local elementary schools (Let them suffer if they can’t read or write English, the Camera said.) I remember approaching a Camera editor and asking that he run an article about a Chicano student who was paralyzed in an automobile accident and could not afford the exorbitant medical bills his treatment would entail. I’m sure the people of Boulder would have responded in a big way to his plight, but the Camera never ran the article. Yet not only Chicanos are victimized by the Camera. The Camera cheats its readers by amassing a fortune in advertising revenues and subscription payments, but failing to cover all the news, or even a substantial part of the news. I’m forced to read the Rocky Mountain News and the Denver Post to learn of events in international, national and even statewide news.To top it all off, the Camera is currently trying to run City Council members out of town, and in doing so, gain a stranglehold on city government in Boulder, The first Black mayor of Boulder, Penfield Tate, and Council member Tim Fuller are the objects of the Camera's wrath, and for what reason? They dared to advocate equal rights for everyone in Boulder, and have also worked for an end to ‘growth for growth's sake’ in Boulder. Who is to blame for this mess? You could easily place the blame on Norman Christiansen and other top Camera staffers. However every Camera staff member who contributes to the malignancy is also to blame. They haven’t the guts to stand up and say ”I don't need your blood money, and I don’t buy what you’re selling." I am also a culprit, and so are all those Camera readers sadly shake their heads at the Camera's distortions and lies, and do nothing to combat the largest polarizing force in the Boulder community. Let the Camera continue its ravings unmolested, and you will get what you have paid for: an extremely polarized community where cops and Chicanos eye each other with hatred, where women's rights must be fought for at every step, and where the Camera grows rich on human hatred. As a public service, cancel your subscription to the Boulder Daily Cancer. Cut some of the Camera's money and watch how fast the newspaper becomes responsive to the needs of all Boulder residents. Paul Mora