La Historia de UMASLa Historia de UMAS "To work toward fulfilling the general needs of the Mexican American people of Colorado and students at the University by whatever means available under a democratic process in a non-violent manner". UMAS is dedicated to perpetuate those goals in order to establish rapport with Chicano communities and not forget our purpose on this campus. We are here in an effort to bring about social justice to all oppressed brothers and sisters. "Lost to our land, education is our stand.Ó These words of educational awareness arc goals expressed by UMAS in order to gain a stand toward the social and economic betterment of La Raza. Though the organization has existed since 1968. we have gone through constant struggle in order to offer an "alternative to minority problems". We feel that education provides that alternative. We must establish a place in the University for all the socially oppressed. During the Fall of 1968 an active recruitment was initiated, in order to try to achieve parity at the University of Colorado. The Mexican American Youth Adelante (MAYA) formed by UMAS in May 1969. provides encouragement for Chicano high school and GED students to move progressively towards a higher education. The sharing of educational achievement will help our people in our Communities to better interpret this dominant society. The UMAS Summer Program began in June 1969. It served as an eight-week orientation introducing the Chicano student to a college atmosphere. Because we are concerned with academic performance, we have utilized our "man power" in creating a counseling program to make the incoming students feel that they can turn to someone for academic as well as personal counseling. A tutorial program has been initiated in order to tutor students in each subject and give him the self-assurance he needs. The English component offers University English classes in writing and literature. The writing tutorial services are available for all students who might have writing problems, a common setback for all students. Our land was illegally overtaken, our culture was castrated andone of the most socially and educationally deprived people in the Southwest. Through education we recognize that Chicanos can no longer be termed the "sleeping giant". The sleeping giant has now awakened. UMAS. as an organization, has been extremely involved with activities concerning all students. The struggle has been one of great dedication. Often our students have sacrificed great amounts of time to activities which concern La Raza. The staff of El Diario, along with active Chicanos in the UMAS office find it necessary to work long, arduous hours, not only to meet deadlines but to assist with activities which are to the benefit of our people. We are devoted to the farmworkers struggle. Though 60 percent of the migrant workers are Chicanos, a crushing fact considering the paucity of the Chicano people in the nation we are the second minority. This cycle of poverty, too well known to the Chicanos, must be broken. We, the students of UMAS realize that only through education and active dedication to our Raza shall we achieve progress in our fight tor social justice. Si se puede, con tu ayuda.