If THERE IS NO STRUGGLE... THERE IS NO PROGRESS...
More than one-hundred local Chicanos marched under a hot sun from Brighton to Ft. Lupton on June 15. The march was in memory of Heiberto Teran. and the other victims of the Boulder bombings in May. The eight-mile memorial march was organized by groups in both Brighton and Ft. Lupton where Teran devoted much of his time working with al causa. There were representatives from nearly every part of Colorado.
Here Chicanos. mourning Heriberto Teran. carry a mock coffin in his name to Ft. Lupton where he worked in the community. Teran had been one of the original instructors at the Academia Ricardo Falcon.
Several hundred persons gathered outside the U.S. Federal Courthouse in Denver. July 11. The crowd, which consisted largely of UMAS-Boulder students, was demonstrating against the Federal Grand Jury which convened the same day.
Demonstrators in the July 4 Demonstration in Boulder carried mock coffins bearing the names of the six victims of the late-May Boulder car bombings. The two-and-a-half mile march began at Pudlik's Liquor store where a May 20 bombing took the lives of Florencio Granado, Heriberto Teran and Francisco Dougherty and left Antonio Alcantar seriously injured. The procession then went to TB 1. where a group of UMAS students occupied the administrative offices of UMAS-EOP for 19 days in May. The march ended at Chataqua Park, the scene of the May 27 bombing which claimed the lives of Reyes Martinez. Neva Romero and Una Jaakola. There, leaders of the Chicano Movement, including Corky Gonzales. Jose Calderon. Ernesto Vigil and Brian Sanchez, gave eulogies of the dead activists as well as pledging a renewed vigor for the struggle of our people.
The signs convey the message of the July 4 Memorial March in Boulder where hundreds endured sunny 90 degree weather to commemorate all activists lost to la causa and la Raza.
Ernesto Vigil told the July 4 demonstrators the Federal Investigators are attempting to fit the facts of the bombings into a preconceived theory by asking us to believe Reyes Martinez was building a bomb with two sisters in a car known by police officers across the state. They are also charging the victims of the May 29 bombing in Boulder were also building a bomb in front of Pudlik’s Liquor Store.

