Chicano WrestlersThe following feature story was volunteered to the El Diario. We encourage articles of this kind and as long as space permits, we will print them. El Diario has a limited staff and cannot cover all stories of interest to our readers. If you would like to submit a story, type it on a 60 space line, double spaced, and signed by the author. If you would like to have the article returned include a self addressed stamped envelope. The University Chicano Students would like to congratulate the high school grapplers that competed in the annual Colorado State High School Tournament, Class AA. The competition took place at Aurora H ink ley High School on Feb. 14, 15, and 16. At 98 pounds, Larry Montano from Roosevelt battled his way to his first championship by defeating Ron Bauce from Yuma, in a 9-6 decision on Thursday night. The next step to the title berth Montano had to eliminate a very strong contender in his weight. Art Aragon from Rocky Ford. Montano did just that, he out scored Aragon in a 8-3 bout. At last, this gave Montano what he had been after for a number of years, the opportunity to wrestle for state championship. Saturday night Montano was paired up with David Davis from Paonia, who also had previous experience at a state wrestling meet. With a lot of desire and determination Montano won a convincing 8-2 decision over Davis. As an outstanding wrestler, Larry Montano didn’t give up hope because he did not place in the previous year but went on to a well deserved championship. Continuing on to the 105 pound class, the competition became more tense. Here the prime contenders for the title were Claude Jaramillo, Center and Ron Oestman, Wray, who were the two wrestlers that ended up having a show down for the 98 pound berth in 1973 resulting in the defeat of Oestman by Jaramillo. For Jaramillo his First priority was to dispose of Fred Roybal, Salida. This bout terminated in a three minute forty-two second (3:42) pin by Jaramillo. This skilled performance on the part of Jaramillo enabled him to proceed to his next opponent. Charlie Amaya, Rocky Ford, however did not pose any great threat on Jaramillo's on-going persuit for the championship. The 8-2 decision primed Jaramillo for a rerun of last years title bout against Oestman. Friday evening Jaramillo again showed the audience that he was still the champ by defeating Oestman in a 7-0 decision. At this point Jaramillo realized that his work had not been completed, he still had to face Phil Montoya from Las Animas. Montoya, who had more experience than what he was credited for, was the next opponent for the champ. A runner-up in the 105 pound class in 1973, Montoya went out on the mat with all the confidence in the world as did Jaramillo of a victory. The match was an execution of two fine wrestlers going to their fullest potential for the purpose of gaining recognition in their bracket. Jaramillo's Fine precisioned techniques were superior to those of Montoya. The out-come of the match resulted in a decision of 4-1 in Jaramillo's favor. Jaramillo's talents were not only felt by Montoya but also by the awards committee, who honored Claude Jaramillo to share the outstanding wrestler award. In the 112 pound division the "agony of defeat" was felt by Keith Ritchie of Woodland Park, who was defeated by Anthony Martinez from Fort Lupton in a decision of 12-1 in the First round. This opportunity motivated Martinez to ready himself for his next opponent in the quarterfinals. Ray Reents, an experienced wrestler from Bulington, was eliminated by a 21 decision by Martinez. Along with his inexperience, Martinez showed that his determination was going to be a prominent factor as to his ability to become the next 11 2 pound champ. In the semifinals, Martinez and Jerry Bonds of Fowler, were face to face on the mat with the notion of becoming a state champ. Martinez out scored Bonds in a unanimous 7-2 decision. At last the time had come when Martinez had Finally made it to he top. His dream of becoming a contender for the state wrestling championship was no longer a dream, but a reality. The final moments of a year’s hard work were Finally going to pay off, he was now on the mat wrestling against Rick Wilson, Wray, who had also had a hard-fought experience that advanced him to this Final match. With the thought of the two previous wrestlers having won their matches, Martinez went on to prove that he could also be among the champions of his same cultural background. This was backed up by his overwhelming decision over Wilson (9-2). Being a small framed person does not necessarily mean that you are restricted to various activities. these three outstanding young men proved that a champion can be of any nature imaginable.