Moya responds to Diario articleJohn:Re your story "Reporter docs La Raza injustice," (El Diario, Feb. 8, 1974): I compliment you on your professionalism, insofar as you made no attempt to distort any point I tried to get across in conversation with you. However, there exists between us a basic disagreement. Your story clearly expressed a point of view, i.e. that the press should be used as a “tool” for Chicanos. While I, like any Chicano, am well aware that injustice and prejudice are real and should be eradicated, I can’t tor a moment subscribe to the notion that the press should be the tool of any particular people or point of view. Rather, I believe it should be a tool to separate the true from the false, letting the chips fall where they may. Because of this belief, I can’t in good conscience become a “movement reporter” and all that entails, selective reporting of facts which reflect favorably on Chicanos while ignoring facts which don't; mindless acceptance of undocumented charges and claims at the expense of my own integrity; and the resulting loss of credibility when the realization dawns on readers that I have forsaken my objectivity. I chose, instead, to report the facts as I am able to determine them. By doing this, I believe I can win the trust of the truck driver who hates "welfare cheaters,” so that this same truck driver will believe a story 1 write about horrendous conditions migrant laborers must work under. Perhaps it's idealistic on my part to think objective reporting can have a real effect in changing the attitude of a society which is often unjust; but, again, perhaps it isn't. I don't mean to say that advocacy journalism like that expressed in El Diario is wasted or unneeded. But you must be aware that your audience is one which already embraces the philosophies you dispense. The audience for which I write isn't so sure. It requires of me stories based soundly in fact. It is these kinds of stories I struggle to provide. And it is these kinds of stories which I believe in the long run will put into focus inequities which otherwise would go unnoticed and uncorrected. Frank Moya.Editor's note: We do not advocate that the power of the press he used as a tool for any one group or people, what we are opposed to is that presently the press is being used as a tool against one people Chicanos. Traditionally the press has been the guardian of the people against oppression, corruption etc. We submit that the role of newspapers has changed. The interest of advertisers, publishers, and editors are being served before the needs of the people. Also, Mr. Moya, never have we advocated “selective reporting of facts which reflect favorably on Chicanos while ignoring facts which don't. This is not advocacy journalism. Advocacy journalism is simply presenting a side to a story which is regularly ignored or overlooked by the larger press.