Boycott Lettuce & GalloStudents at the University overwhelmingly supported the Lettuce Boycott in the recent student referendum the vote was 2,054 to 1,409. But the work is not finished. There is still head lettuce in the dorms. There is still head lettuce on every hamburger in Boulder. There is still lettuce in every major super market in Boulder. Hopefully the 2,000 students who voted to support the boycott understand the reasons for the boycott. They have in no way fulfilled their obligation. They must continue to protest against lettuce wherever they see it; tell their family and friends about it; and if necessary go to the Farm Labor Task Force, UMC 416, and let them answer your questions. Only by continuing the educational campaign about the farmworkers can the injustices be corrected. Gallo Boycott This week the FLTF launched a new campaign against Gallo wines. The reasons behind the Gallo boycott are much the same as those of the Lettuce and Grape boycotts justice for farmworkers. Yet, students have a special obligation to the Gallo boycott. It was student leaders in California who called for the boycott last summer. That’s right, students called the boycott against Gallo. Last summer, after negotiations between the United Farm Workers union and Gallo broke down, the Teamsters signed a contract with the winery without contacting one worker. The day the contract was signed, 95 per cent of the Gallo workers went out on strike to protest the agreement. Within a week this strike work force was replaced by Teamster scabs. Then elections were held and the new workers endorsed the Teamster contract while the regular workers were on the picket lines. Many of these workers had worked for the winery for the entire six years the UFW had the contract. Most of them lived in Gallo housing. When they went on strike, they were forced out of their jobs, their homes and out of their chosen union. The UFW’s hands were tied. They did not recognize the "sweetheart contract," but they were prohibited by the AFLCIO from calling any new boycotts. It was at this time that students from seven California schools called upon Cesar Chavez and asked how they could help. After meeting with Chavez in his daughter’s back yard, the students themselves decided to launch their own boycott. This University has shown in the recent elections that there is an awareness of the injustices farm workers suffer. College students are the biggest consumers of Gallo's pop-wines, they can make or break the Gallo boycott. Again the farm workers are depending on consumers to help them have a choice of unions. Don’t drink any Gallo wines, Boonesfarm, Ripple or anything bottled in Modesto, California until Gallo gives farmworkers free elections. One little tip: Italian Swiss Colony has contracts with the UFW and their wines are good alternatives to Gallo.