Cartas - Cartas - Cartas - Cartas
Unidos! July B,* 1974 Denver, Atzlan Dear UMAS-Boulder, It takes unity to accomplish something and make it successful and. because we are UNIDOS we did it. The demonstration came out very good. It is very important that we continue to stay united to maintain future accomplishments like that of July 4th. We understand it was a great loss to us to have to sacrifice six strong and beautiful brothers and sisters por la causa, however we have to become stronger as we go on. The speakers said some beautiful things that I'm sure stuck to our minds. When Ernesto spoke about Los Seis, Falcon, Luis, Kiko, it touched the hearts of many of us. Because it hurts to know we have lost some strong revolutionaries. When Ricardo spoke about continuing to educate, even more so than before, we have to begin to do that everyday. When Calderon spoke about not getting to far ahead of our people because we would lose that unity, we must think of that and always remain together. When Corky spoke about continuing our struggle for victory, this is an inspiration to continue HASTA LA VICTORIA SEIM PRE. We were very pleased to see your participation in the demonstration and hope we could keep our contacts and continue our struggle unidos. Also hoping future gatherings will not have to be because of a loss in our familias. Because of what has happened in Boulder the system goes on to try to repress us through grand jury subpoenas. Enclosed in this envelope is a flyer explaining a demonstration to be held against the grand jury on July 11th. We are hoping you will be able to attend this demonstration to once again show unity within our raza. We must also be sensitive toward the fact that they have critically wounded a brother through the racist attack on the Boulder six and now Antonio Alcantar lies in a hospital bed without a leg and possibly without an arm. By sending cards and letters to Antonio, we're hoping it will make his stay in the hospital a little easier. We must let him know that we are out here working also for him. You can send them to Veterans Administration Hospital do Antonio Alcantar 1055 Clermont St. Denver, Colorado 80220 If you have any questions please contact us through our mailing address or 458-5851. VENCEREMOS. Sin Mas, Antonio Archuleta Dougherty Dear Sirs: I have just concluded reading “El Diario'* that you dedicated to the seven individuals killed as a result of two bombings in Boulder, Colorado. You are to be congratulated on the feeling and the restraint that you used in describing the hurt all of us share in this untimely massacre of our many Mexican-American youths. However, 1 would like to chastise you for not exercising more of an effort to gather additional information on Francisco Doughtery. As Financial Aids Director at Laredo Junior College. I recommended Francisco Doughterty to my boss. Dr. Sanchez. Director of Student Personnel, to have Francisco represent Laredo Junior College at the Medical School of the University of Texas at Galveston during the summer of 1973. We here at Laredo Junior College were very much impressed by Francisco's ability to endear himself to his professors, staff, as well as the students. I understand that during his military career in Vietnam he served as a medical corp-man in a special forces group acquiring skills enabling him to perform appendectomies, emergency suturing, setting of broken bones as well as other medical fetes usually reserved for a physician. We at Laredo Junior College feel we have lost a future, potential physician as well as a warm, close friend. Please release this information, in your newspaper if space permits. Sincerely, Humberto R. Laurel, Jr. Financial Aids Officer Laredo Jr. College P.S. Could you advise us on the latest data of the FBI investigation into the two bombings An outrageous act’ To whom it may concern, I am writing to you, my fellow brothers and sisters with my deepest concern of the Boulder community. 1 am a former student of the University and native of Colorado but now reside in San Antonio, Texas. I have read the June 11 article of “El Diario" and was very disappointed and emotional to see the misfortunate incident which took place there recently. It would be deeply appreciated if the staff would keep in touch with me in regards to this outrageous act of violence. A concerned carnal, Phil Espinoza "We’re all Chicanos One night some time ago a couple Bro s and I were sitting in G's and the subject of how we were doing in classes came up. We talked about our teachers and TA's and that some of our Bro s were not going to make it through the summer program. This seemed a little ridiculous because the summer classes appeared to Be watered down and were a sinch to at least pass. None the less, there were many students who lost interest in the program the first couple of weeks into the summer. Failing to understand just what the problem was we called an emergency meeting at I a.m. at Baker Hall. Students from Libby Hall and Baker were coming out in their pajamas and robes, confused but interested, wanting to be a part of what was happening. There were a lot of things discussed but the main topic was: what was this “Movement” we were all supposed to be a part of. If it was so “Good” then why couldn't it include all the students? It was decided that this was not the time or the place to work it out so the discussions were postponed till the following morning at Dr. Rivera's Sociology class. Dr. Rivera’s Sociology class was picked because we felt that since the definition of Sociology is the study of the problems of society this would be the best place. Another reason was that we, the summer students, were told that “Movement” was the subject of this course. At approximately 7:45 A.M. we assembled outside of Mackey, to “get our shit together" on what we were going to do. It was brought up that there was a chance that Professor Rivera would not listen to us so we needed somebody to get the Prof.'s attention, somebody to let the Professor know just what was on our mind. Class began as usual with the days topic. "Why the Women of old Mexico resort to Prostitution”. This obviously was not what we came to discuss, so I stood up and told the Prof, our problem. We were totally unprepared for Dr. Rivera's reaction. He took it as a student takeover of his class. He came stomping down to the front of the room and said “If you don't want to learn, then get out”. He then gave the group of almost 300 students an assignment of which the information could only be found in two books and said they would be tested on it by Friday, which only gave us three days to perform this task. 1 couldn't believe my ears or my eyes. Here we were at a leading University, striving to get an answer to a perfectly harmless question and instead we got the proverbial “Green Wiennie”. That was back in 1972 but to this day we still haven't gotten an answer. Why didn't he tell us he didn't know! Signed Sonny Montoya
LA RAZA UNIDA
