AMERICA'S FARMWORKERS ARE ASKING YOU TO BOYCOTT GALLO WINES. H HERE'S WHY: After suffering for years under unspeakable living and working conditions, Americas farmworkers came together in the 1960 s to form a union, a union that would fight for their rights and articulate their needs. The union was the United Farm Workers of America (UFWA), and under its leadership ( conditions improved dramatically. A little too dramatically to suit some of the growers, and when the contracts expired last summer many growers did their best to destroy what the workers had built. Ernest and Julio Gallo, the worlds largest winery, spearheaded the unionbusting effort. Last June, Gallo announced that UFWA contracts would not be renewed. New contracts were signed with the Teamsters Union, contracts that had been worked out behind closed doors with no worker participation. Not surprisingly the contracts gave Gallo and the Teamsters Union everything they wanted, and gave the workers almost nothing. The Teamsters’ contracts brought dangerous pesticides back into the fields, and allowed virtually unlimited automation. Fair employment practices went out the window, and living and working conditions returned to the bad old days. UFWA organizers and sympathizers were systematically fired and evicted from company owned housing. Faced with the prospect of a giant step backwards. Gallos field hands chose to go out on strike. But men, women and children manning the picket lines were met with a massive campaign of violence and intimidation forcing them to withdraw from the fields and return to the consumer boycott. But they need your help to make it work. The basic issue in the Gallo boycott is, simply democracy. The workers want the right to choose their own union through free, independently supervised elections. Other American workers ate guaranteed this right by law, but agricultural workers aren’t. By boycotting all Gallo products, you can help give them this basic right. Boones Farm, Spanada. Ripple. Thunderbird. Tyrolia. Andre. Eden Roc. Carlo Rossi, Red Mountain and Paisano are all made by Gallo, and should be avoided. Americas farmworkers have broken their backs for hundreds of years to put food on your table. Now they’re asking you to do something for them. Will you? I enclose $ to help the farm workers survive the coming weeks or months without a working wage □ I would like to help with the boycott of Gallo Wine. Please send me more information. \bur Name City Make Checks Payable to "United Farm Workers of America" Mail to United Farmworkers of America WV P O Box 62 3C Keene. Calif 93531 Call (805) 822 5571 for further Info. Prepared by Public Media Center, San Francisco HelD the Farm Labor Task Force support farm workers Meeting today: 2:00 pm in Human Relations Lounge (UMC 305) Join picketlines at Liquor Mart every Wednesday and Friday from 4 to 7 pm . . .