“Never abused a living soul”
Adams County Coroner and Mortician Jack St. Germain says he ‘ doesn’t remember ever abusing a living soul," including the foursome who removed a body from his Brighton mortuary on April 1 8. St. Germain told HI Diario he is the one being abused and blames the news media and the Mexican consulate for “blowing the whole thing out of proportion.” St. Germain was referring to an episode that occurred on the evening of April 18. According to an April 26 Rocky Mountain News article, Robert Perez of Commerce City, his wife, his sister and a chancellor from the Mexican consulate in Denver were advised in the course of a heated dispute that they would have only 30 minutes to remove the body of Perez’ cousin from St. Germain's Mortuary. Unassisted, they removed the body using a litter borrowed from the Brighton Community Hospital, while two of St. Germain's assistants reportedly stood looking on “laughing." picked-up body “ It’s true, they picked-up the body, put it in their station wagon and drove off," said St. Germain. He denies allowing the Perez family only 30 minutes to remove the body. He said he tried to persuade the Perez family to do things his way. “This isn’t the way it’s done in the United States," he told them. However, they insisted on taking the body and refused to wait on the matter. Perez’s cousin, a Mexican citizen who was working in the Brighton area, was the victim of a car accident. The body was taken to St. Germain’s mortuary, while the family made arrangement through the Mexican consulate in Denver. Asked what the dispute was over, St. Germain said Miss Rocio Marin, chancellor at the consulate, gave him three options release the body to Trevino’s Mortuary and except a standard $75 fee for embalming; keep the body and ship it to Mexico at Trevino’s quoted price of $5OO, or be prepared to answer a summons to court. can't do it St. Germain said he couldn’t agree with the first option because someone at Trevinos had said they didn’t want anything to do with the body after he had explained the situation. Concerning the second option. St. Germain said he had offered to ship the body to Mexico for $725, but couldn't do it at Trevinos $5OO price. “I just couldn’t do it. It’s the
worst breach of ethics you could have," St. Germain said. He compared the mortuary business with the watermelon business saying. “If I sell watermelons at 50 cents a piece and you come along wanting to buy one at 30 cents, I couldn't do it . . . just because I feel sorry for you." After an investigation into the incident, the Colorado Board of Mortuary Sciences placed St. Germain on probation for one year.
He is appealing that decision. Bunch of Savages Brighton Chicanos are not satisfied with the boards decision and  St. Germain’s license should have been revoked. As a result, Chicanos have organized demonstrations and picket lines at St. Germain’s Mortuary. The most recent demonstration was held on Mexican Independence Day. "They march like a bunch of savages," St. Germain said. He
feds the only way to accomplish things is to negotiate. He added that the Mexican people were afraid to do business with him because of the "militant element.” Mrs. St. Germain summed it up by saying, “On our day of independence, the Fourth Of July, I never heard of Anglos going out to other peoples homes to march and shout obscenities."

