Selection of Minority Dean near endby Evelyn MartinezThe University’s selection of someone for the vacant position of the new Dean of Minority Affairs is near completion. The selection of the Dean is expected to be announced by the middle of May, according to Rich Harpel. Chairman of the search committee. The University administration appointed the committee to aid in finding a new Dean several months ago. Since then, the committee has met once a week to review applications for the position. Harpel said the committee had already received nearly 250 applications before the April 15 deadline. The Dean will be the coordinator and chief officer of all the minority EOP programs and all EOP directors will report to him. He will also have a part in academic decisions with the other deans of academic affairs. In addition, the Dean will be responsible in assisting in developing accredited minority programs in individual schools and alleges within the university. The newly created position of Dean for Minority Affairs is part of the University's proposed reorganization plan, which will bring all CU campuses under one main campus. “If adopted, the new plan will do away with the current positions of vice presidents, and instead the University will appoint chancellors," Harpel said. Dean instead of V P ? Last semester Chicano students attacked the current setup of having an Anglo vice president in the position of both student and minority affairs, claiming the vice president does not adequately represent the needs and,interests of minority students. Chicano students asked that a Chicano or other minority person be appointed to the position of Vice President for Minority Affairs. However, at the same time President Thieme was planning his proposed reorganization of the campuses and instead recommended a Dean for Minority Affairs as part of the new plan instead of a vice-president. Chicano students have expressed their dissatisfaction at Thieme's proposal claiming the Dean will continue to be answerable to the vice chancellors and other University bureaucrats, and the problems of Chicano students will continue to be ignored. However, the Dean will actually be answerable directly to Provost Lawson Crowe, who is Academic Vice President at the University. Under the proposed reorganization plan, the Provost will become the Chancellor of the campus. All deans will be reporting directly to him and to the Dean of Academic Affairs. The search committee consists of all five EOP directors, two faculty members, and several staff. The committee is responsible for defining the position of the Dean of Minority Affairs, screening of applications. and recommendations. Selection process Committee chairman Harpel explained the committee's input into the selection process: The committee each week reviews 25 to 30 applications which are then grouped into three subdivisions for further consideration on a rating scale of one to three, ranging from I meaning strongly recommended, 2 tentative, and 3 does not qualify. The basic criteria for the position asks that the applicant be experienced in higher education, have previous experience in minority programs in education, budget experience if possible, and consideration of educational background and qualifications. Harpel also said the committee had checked with Barbara Jones, Affirmative Action Director, to insure that the committee had followed all Affirmative Action guidelines. “We’ve followed all Affirmative Action guidelines in posting of the job. representing all ethnic minorities and other procedures," he explained. After all votes have been totaled by the committee, a list of 10 recommendations will be sent to the organization CAMBIC (Coalition of Asians, Migrants, Blacks, Indians, and Chicanos), who will evaluate the applicants and recommend only five of the 10 applicants back to the committee. “Faculty and students of each minority organization are represented through CAMBIC and will therefore have student andminority input at this time." Harpel said. After receiving the five recommendations from CAMBIC. the search committee will then recommend three applicants to President Thieme and the Provosts office, who will then select the new Dean. Student Input The five applicants will be brought to campus for interviewing before narrowing the selection down to three candidates. The applicants will also be available to all minority student groups. UMAS. MAP. BSA. etc., and all EOP staff. ”At this point students will again get their chance to have input into the consideration." Harpel said. UMAS-EOP Director, Joe Franco said he has recommended strongly to the committee that there be more student input. “Chicanos are the largest minority on campus; they are the action," Franco said. “The applicants must be conditioned to this fact," he continued. He also stressed that he will make it a point to see that each applicant in the final rounds of selection meet all Chicano staff, faculty, and Chicano students before the selection is made. “At this time we will settle for a Dean of Minority Affairs, but next year we may be in the position to ask for a Vice-Chancellor of Minority Affairs," Franco said. He again stressed the number of being the largest minority group on campus and UMAS-EOP being the largest supportive program. Although neither Franco nor Harpel could reveal exactly the number of applicants according to ethnic groups, it was estimated that’ there were more Black male applicants, but the numbers were expected to even out as more applications were received. Franco estimated that of a number of Chicano applications received, several are on the “positive, strongly recommended pile." William Pitts, BEP Director said he doesn’t know how many Black applicants there actually are, but indicated there was no problem in the turnout of Black applicants. Other EOP directors were unavailable for comment.