Veterans still waiting
Many are profiting from the corruption of the American system, all the way from ex-President Nixon to the people who don’t have their what-ever-it-takes to have pride in the ground upon which they walk, live and farm. These profiteers do not include the Vietnam-era veteran, however. Last summer, H.R. 12628, the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 was introduced into the Congress containing the following provisions: $ 1000 low interest program Extension from 8 years to 1 0 years for eligibility for G.l. assistance ( This is now law) Monthly increase of 23% percent in VA checks Monthly entitlement extension provision Provision for partial tuition assistance allowance up to $720 a year. In the days that followed, the passing of the bill was placed into the competent hands of Senators and Congressman as veterans eagerly waited. But President Ford hinted at a VFW convention he would veto the bill should it make it to his desk. Since that time the country and the President have been in weary anticipation as inflation has soared to all-time highs.
The Veterans’ bill has recently come out of committee where it underwent some major surgery: The house of representatives eliminated the 9 month entitlement extension. The low interest loan program is also gone. The proposed increase in monthly payments have been reduced from 23 percent to 1 8 percent in some cases. The 8 to 10 year extension for use of VA benefits is still law. Provisions for partial tuition assistance was eliminated by the House-Senate Formal Conference Committee. So now, the young men who risked their lives and in numerous cases lost limbs, have been whisked under the rug of America’s shame for Vietnam. President Ford, in much the manner in which he offered conditional amnesty to the deserters and the draft-dodgers, is offering only conditional benefits for those who served. Incidentally, according to the latest release of names of armed forces deserters contain no Chicano or Spanish-surnamed persons.

