Por CelestinoAlthough no one could tell by looking at him. he was scared. He was trying hard to keep himself from shaking, yet small tremors were flowing through his body. His face remained expressionless. but his mind screamed, frightening screams that just echoed and disappeared somewhere in the back of his mind. Something about this whole thing scared him. but he didn't know what it was. He knew it wasn't physical, it was something unnatural that was scaring him. It was like brujas or la llorona. they always scared him in this kind of way. yet he didn't believe in them. Even though he had never seen la Llorona or a bruja they always scared him. If only this thing was something physical he could touch. If only I knew' what it was. I would throw myself at it and fight it. I could feel it hurting me and I could hurl it back. How can I fight something if l don't know what it is. This thing is going to hurt me and I don't like it. He screamed again, only this time it was louder, but again it disappeared somewhere in the back of his mind. He knew he was alone and a sudden feeling of loneliness crept dyer him. He had never felt so alone in his life. In desperation, he looked around but all that was there were those evil looking people with hideous expressions on their faces. He had to close his eyes and looked away, but this didn't help for even in the darkness of his mind, the expression was implanted there. He became frightened again and a weird feeling of loneliness overcame him. He felt like crying, he almost called like a baby for his mother, but he caught himself and desperately fought back the tears of loneliness. To keep from crying, he again looked around in hopes of seeing a friend or someone, andagain no one was there. Only I those weird looking people staring back at him. Sadly he looked away and wept, but no tears came out of his eyes: as they were lost somewhere in the back of his mind, where tears of loneliness can lose themselves for they were not meant for those weird looking people. He heard someone call out his name, but it sounded so far away. He heard it again, each time getting louder and closer. This time he knew' where it came from, he tried desperately to ignore it: almost panicking he controlled himself. That thing was scaring him again. He grew tense, nervous. He was like a cornered animal ready to strike at whatever threatened him. ready to fight till death to spring to strike. Strike at what? He was scared. Afraid of something that wasn't natural. To keep from losing control, he started thinking of how he got here. The chain of events swirled in his mind and realization hit him like a slap in the face. Tear gripped and he screamed, for he had realized why he was here. Suddenly he knew what was happening. Even though he didn't hear the pronounced sentence, he knew what it was. When they took him away, he wasn't frightened, because he knew what it was that was scaring him. When they took him out. he shouted with till his might, with all his carazon. with all his strength he could muster, he shouted aloud: "Racist America, just because I am Brown". But no one heard him. for in the dark chambers of their weird minds hie was just another dirty Mexican. probably high on dope or just crazy. And when the judge said "may the lord have mercy on your soul. " they all smiled that weird smile of self-righteousness that scares us all.