Attack continues on Rodino bill
Brown people once again are target of the United States government's malignant mind. This time in the form of two proposed amendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act. The Rodino Bill (H.R. 982) and the Kennedy bill (S. 3827) supposedly are designed to deal with the problem of so-called "illegal aliens” in the Southwest. They are based on the premise that legislation is needed to eliminate unfair competition for ‘US workers” from “foreign workers,” usually Mexican nationals. In reality, they are nothing new. Rather, they are merely legacy. In the past, the US government has found it convenient to admit or deny Mexicanos entrance to this “country” depending on the situation of the times. When cheap, reliable labor was (is) needed to build railroads, stock factories during wars, and harvest crops, “borders” were opened for our brothers, these "aliens.” But when times changed and big business couldn't maximize their profits with these laborers, the “borders” were closed, and widespread deportations, and harassment of Brown people became the rule. Today, the latter is in effect. Legislators are trying to convince people that “unfair competition for US workers,” namely Mexican nationals, are the cause of the economic chaos, stagnation and
inflation that is ripping this country at its seams. The Rodino Bill, which has already passed the Congress, basically attempts to punish employers who “knowingly” hire "illegal aliens.” However, the employer can protect himself by having his employees sign a form stating that they are legally present in the United States. Furthermore, the sanctions against employers are minimal. There is no punishment for the first offense, a small civil penalty for the second offense, and the possibility of a misdemeanor charge for a third offense. In addition, employees of HEW would be required to turn in suspected “illegal aliens" to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. This means further harassment of all Raza on the basis of surname, appearance, and language. Anyone without "proper credentials” could forcibly be deported to some randomly selected place across the "border." This type of restrictive legislation is clearly a violation of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the 1848 pact which legitimized the US’ seizure of much Mexican land. Free access across the so called “border” between the United States and Mexico is provided for in this treaty. This law also would invite racist employers to refuse to hire any Chicano or Latino people on
the pretext of a fear of running afoul of the Act. This would mean that all Raza would have to carry birth certificates and extensive documentation in order to be protected from summary deportation. This could have drastic impact on Raza elders, gente who have systematically been denied access to any type of accountability. This is simply another attempt to destroy and control our people. These bills would lead to the further deliberate breakup of Raza familias, in direct contradiction to the original purpose of the Immigration and Naturalization Act, developed to unite familias. In essence, this legislation is an attempt to divide the Chicano community and to set up the so called "illegal alien” as a scapegoat for the massive unemployment among Chicanos in this area and to blame them for the economic problems of the country in general. Nowhere does this legislation seek out the real roots of the economic problems, those who own and control the land, money and factories. Solidarity with our Raza brothers who have been forced to go north to provide for their families because of the enormous problems they also face in their homeland because of US economic intervention is the only answer.

