Kuo appointed Vice-Chancellor
Alexander Kuo, former Director of Ethnic Studies at Central Washington State University, has accepted the newly created $26,000-a-year-plus position of Assistant Vice-Chancellor for Minority Affairs. After two and one-half years without a champion for their rights, the EOP minority programs find themselves with a newly created position. Assistant Vice-Chancellor for Minority Affairs. In 1972, the Faculty Committee on Minority Affairs and the EOP Directors requested such a position. A brief search was initiated, but was never completed. The responsibilities were delegated to James Corbridge, then Vice President for Student Affairs. At a financial aid rally last fall, students accused Corbridge of being “insensitive'' and “unresponsive” to their needs. Students called for his resignation. Shortly thereafter, it was rumored that Corbridge would resign. Instead, he was promoted to Vice-Chancellor, and a position subordinate to his was created for EOP. A nation wide search to fill the position was initiated in late
April, and a search committee headed by Richard Harpel, Director of Research for Program Development, reviewed over 300 applications. Six candidates were brought to the Boulder campus for interviews. Three of the six were selected as finalists. It was later learned that the first choice, Nathanial Pugh, a senior staff associate of the Consortium of Medical Services in Alabama, had declined the offer. The position was then offered to Kuo. Much controversy is centered around Kuo's appointment. Many students have disputed the selection committee process contending that “students had no input" and that the administration “hand picked their man." Chicano students, who comprise well over half of the minority population, feel that a Chicano should have been selected. Whatever the case maybe, no one can deny that Kuo has a tough one on his hands. UMAS is presently undergoing drastic restructuring following the “TB-I Crisis." The other EOP programs appear to be without a unilateral thrust.

