News in Brief
Pueblo
Sixteen Chicanos were arrested and suspended from school last week in the aftermath of student disruptions at Centennial High School in Pueblo. No Blacks or Anglo students, although involved in the incidents, were charged. Following the confrontation, an aroused Chicano community led by el Pardido Raza Unida and local Brown Berets demanded the resignation of the Pueblo Public Schools’ superintendent. The community also demanded that the school hire more Chicano teachers, counselors, and administrators. According to an El Diario spokesperson, more than 300 students were involved in the melee. The riot situation climaxed an emotional week of anxiety. The spokesperson said Blacks had assaulted Chicanos with knives earlier in the week. No Blacks were arrested nor suspended from school. The 16 Chicanos arrested were also suspended from school for five days.
Jalapa
Students interested in studying Spanish Spring semester in Mexico now have the opportunity to participate in an intensive Spanish program through the university. Vera Cruz, Mexico is the site of the intensive language program designed to provide an opportunity for students who have had little or no Spanish to meet the Arts and Sciences language requirement, or to help prepare other students who have had some Spanish to improve in order to enter other programs in Latin America. Up to 15 pass/fail credit hours are available for study in Mexico. The Jalapa program offers two course sequences. One is for beginners covering Spanish 101, 102, 21 1 and 2-3 hour course on Mexican Civilization taught primarily in English. The other includes Spanish 212, 301, 302, 305 and the Mexican Civilization class. Students live with a family during the semester in Mexico. Married students have to make special arrangements to take their families. Cost of the one semester program is almost the same as instate tuition. There is an additional charge of $ 150. for out of state students. Any university financial aid is transferable to the tuition in Mexico. Applications, due Nov. 1, 1974, are available from the office of International Education, University of Colorado, 914 Broadway, Room 30. Interviews will follow Nov. 11 - 15, 1974. The only requirement after being accepted is to attend an orientation held on November 24. Time and place will be announced. For further information call 492-7741.
Forty-two percent of the Centennial High School student body is Chicano. But there is only one Chicano counselor, one Chicano assistant principal and less than ten Chicano teachers at the school. There are no Chicanos in any decision making positions.
Garrison
For the fourth time, Gary Garrison has a new trial date, March 10, 1975 in Ft. Morgan. He will be going to court on charges stemming from an alleged
bombing attempt of a North Denver paint store last January. Garrison's earlier court dates have all had to be reset for various reasons. His original date, Jan. 24 Grand Jury hearing, was reset to Sept. 16 after Garrison was rearrested for the same charges before he could testify. The Sept. 16 court date was declared a mistrial because of pre-trial publicity by the Denver media. Subsequently on Oct. 1 the trial was moved to Ft Morgan for Oct 15. Because there were no days open for trial in the Fl Morgan court the new trial date of March 10 was set. Garrison is charged with attempted murder, first degree arson, second degree assault and criminal mischief in connection with a bombing attempt of Boones Paint store.
CAABS
The Coalition of Asian American Brothers and Sisters (CAABS) will sponsor a film presentation and speaker Oct. 21. The film, entitled “Guilty by Reason of Race,” concerns the Japanese American concentration camp experience during World War 11.
After the film, American Indian student Charlie Cambridge will lecture on racism in American society. CAABS is the newly formed organization for Asian Americans that will attempt to educate the University community to the unique educational, cultural and political aspects of their ethnic minority in the United States. Time and place for the film/speaker presentation will be announced later.
Answer to last issue’s palabras.
