Why we publish ‘EI Diario’
Diario de la Gente enters its third school year of publication with this issue. Disregarding the time element, since countless other Chicano publications have come before it, and innumberable others will relegate it to the past someday, El Diario itself should not be. Because the general media does not adequately inform Boulder’s and outlying areas’ Chicano community, El Diario was created. Informing Raza on Chicano concerns and other relevant news, generating awareness on certain problems and issues confronting Raza locally, nationally, and internationally, and advocating certain approaches and positions has been the role El Diario has assumed. It welcomes the chance to inform genie with the belief that with information comes motivation, from which determination, and from which emerges action: action to design, develop, and implement change. Change that means life to live and control one's own destiny, or death fighting the oppression that confronts our reality. El Diario in many ways is a challenge. If s a challenge to its volunteer staff to produce enough copy by keeping abreast of the latest events and developments and their implications in order to produce enough acceptable copy for each issue, to solicit enough funds to pay for the materials and physical production procedures inherent in such a publication, and to devote enough time to carry out the order of business. But just as important, its a challenge to you, our reader, also in many ways. It’s a challenge for you to pick up El Diario, read it, digest the information, and pass it on to someone else. But there's more. El Diario can and will only be as informative, meaningful, and accurate as you will allow. We realize our information at times could be improved, but because of our limited resources, many times concessions are made. This will happen only as long as you will allow. We are struggling together. Let us work together on El Diario as well. We welcome you comments and suggestions.

