Solidarity is theme for March 17 rally“Solidarity with the Crusade For Justice" will be the theme on Sunday, March 17, as people of all ages join in a march and rally to be held in Denver. March 17 will mark exactly one year since Denver Police attacked the Crusade for Justice in an effort to close it down. Killed during the confrontation was Luis “Junior" Martinez, a dance instructor at Escuela Tlatelolco. As supporters march through the streets of downtown Denver and toward the rally site at the steps of the state Capitol, solidarity among them will become stronger and stronger as they remember last year’s St. Patrick's Day Massacre. The year-old incident took place on the 1500 block of Downing St. where the Crusade and the apartment complex owned by the Escuela Tlatelolco are located. Shortly after midnight an unidentified youth who had been attending a party being held at one of the Crusade apartments saw a Police cruiser parked across the street with two occupants in it. They were Patrolman Stephen Snyder and Policewoman Carol Hogue. The youth crossed the street and asked what they were doing there. When they did not answer he persisted and then was told that he had jaywalked. The youth was ordered to get in the back seat. At this point Luis “Junior” Martinez and others had gathered around the patrol car when suddenly the youth bolted from the car. As Snyder was getting out to pursue the youth, Martinez held the door long enough for the youth to get away and then ran himself, with Snyder in pursuit. Martinez was later found between two buildings lying in a pool of blood. Also found was a message that he had written on a wall before dying. The message read, “Fuck the Pig." Rodolfo “Corky” Gonzales, head of the Crusade For Justice, said Martinez had lived long enough to leave the message for all policemen to see. Patrolman Snyder was also wounded but has since recovered and is currently back on duty. During the confrontation an explosion ripped out one wall and part of the roof of one of the second story apartments. It has not yet been determined what caused the blast. However, before Crusade attorneys could bring in an independent investigation team. District Attorney Dale Tooley had ordered demolition teams to clear the blast site. When the confrontation ended, 20 year-old Luis “Junior" Martinez was dead, 19 persons were injured and 36 were arrested. During a press conference Gonzales called the incident "a planned attack." He said the people who were shot, arrested and brutalized were provoked into resistance. March 17 will mark one year since the confrontation between the Crusade and Denver Police. Since then, the Crusade has grown stronger despite efforts by others to destroy their movement. To find out what you can do in solidarity with the Crusade for Justice or for further information call the Denver Chicano Liberation Defense Committee (DCLDC) at 303-222-0825.