Gaitan is being punished for his RazaJose Gaitan, prison reformer and founder of the Colorado Pinto Project, has been denied his bid for parole by the Colorado Clemency Board. Gaitan recently spearheaded an expose of corruption among top officials at the Colorado State Penitentiary in Canon City, where he is serving a 45-year sentence for armed robbery and narcotics violations. The Clemency Board's action is seen by many as further punishment for Gaitan, who released prison records to reporters from the Denver Post and the Pueblo Star-Journal/Chieftan newspapers. The prison records were the basis for a complete investigation into the Canon City prison that resulted in the firing of Acting Warden Fred Wyse and several other prison officials. Wyse and several others were subsequently indicted for felony theft and conspiracy violations. Gaitan called the Board's action “pure revenge” for his actions against Wyse and other staff members. Yet Governor John Vanderhoof, while not at all familiar with the reasons for the Board's denial of Gaitan's freedom, said he was “certain” the 11-member Board had a legitimate reason for extending Gaitan's sentence. Vanderhoof also made sure that the Board's decision would not be subject to public criticism. The Governor said that no official explanation of the action would be made public since "inmates denied parole might learn of an adverse vote or comment and seek revenge.” Vanderhoof has the power, to commute Gaitan's sentence but said he saw no reason to do so. Gaitan's Pinto Project is designed to help paroled offenders make it in the world outside prison walls. However, he cannot assume the directorship while in prison. A last Tuesday’s Rocky Mountain News said in part that Robert Trujillo, Colorado Director of Corrections, was a “force behind the change in the (Board's) recommendation." Trujillo, "a man profoundly embarrassed and troubled by the prison scandal,” would answer no questions about the Board’s decision. Trujillo was Wyse's superior and may lose his job because of Gaitan's actions.