LRU runs five candidates in Weld County
Five Partido la Aaza Unida candidates in the Weld County area have announced their candidacy in the November elections. They are: Silver Gurule for Weld County commissioner, Juan Erebia for state representative in District 51, Bob Romero for state senator in District 28, Robert Padilla for state representative in District 51 and Brian Sanchez for U.S. Representative from the 4th Congressional District Only Gurule will be on the ballot, the others are write-in candidates.
The candidates have noted the difficulty on their getting placed on the ballots. They feel it is because El Partido la Raza Unida is becoming more effective. Since 1970 the requirements for being placed on the ballot as an independent candidate have been increased. For example, four years ago it took only 200 signatures of eligible voters to get on the ballot. Today it takes 300 signatures of registered voters who didn’t vote in the primaries. The signers of the petitions must also take a pledge “on the spot" and be notarized. This requires candidates to take a notary public with them when attempting to find potential petition signers. Because of time and conflicting schedules, El Diario was only able to interview three of the Weld County candidates. Bob Romero, 25, is a student at the University of Northern Colorado and a graduate from Mesa College in Grand Junction. He is majoring in social science and is a native of Colorado. He has worked with UMAS organizations in both UNC and Mesa. He feels it is important for people to understand he is not running to win. “We are raising issues and people’s votes are votes against the system rather than an attempt to get Chicanos into the corrupt system." Humanitarianism “If I won, I would serve, but 1 don’t think I could serve a full term ... my revolutionary ideals would prohibit me from cooperating with the politicos," he said. He feels La Raza Unida’s platform is based on humanitarianism; simply people working together to help one another. He sees nationalism as a necessary organizing tool, but admits that the ultimate goal is to unite all oppressed peoples. He puts a great emphasis on retainment of the language and culture of Chicano peoples. Bicultural education is an avenue toward better understanding and more change, he said. Robert Padilla, 21, a native of Brighton, is also a student at the University of Northern Colorado. He is majoring in political science with minors in both communications and sociology. He began working with Ricardo Falcon just before he was slain in August of 1972. He too is active in UMAS at UNC. He said the main reason he is running is to create the kind of changes the two party system has not brought about for Chicanos. “I have seen changes only come when our people take to the streets." Money Talks He said he has adopted a revolutionary philosophy which developed when his mother was involved in the Kitayama Strike in Brighton. “I saw how the corporate owner had police and courts behind him. I also saw how the police mistreated my mother," he said. He believes in an armed struggle, but does not believe it would work in this country now. “When the people say, ‘Ya es tiempo’ then an armed struggle will be successful." The time is coming, he said as he cited the increase in strikes and the increasing inflation. “Pretty soon even the comfortable people will be hurting," he said. Padilla and Romero agreed there is a need for Chicanos to clean up their own back yards before attempting to draw coalitions with other movements. They said “White liberals" often approached them and asked how they could help the Chicano movement. “We tell them to go back into their communities and organize. “Whites are not being organized," they said. Brian Sanchez, 31, a former MAP student at the university, has a somewhat different approach to la Raza Unida. He is a native of Alamosa who spent three years at CU and one year in La Tuna Federal Penitentiary for assaulting two federal officers. He. was acquitted of the charges at a second trial after serving that one year. He sees his role as an alternative candidate who is showing by example. To him, la Raza Unida means the people. Any Chicano working for positive change is part of la Raza Unida. he feels. “La Raza Unida is just what you do. The way you live. The way you believe. You don’t campaign and rap Raza Unida, you just do your daily work.” Since leaving the university, Brian and his wife, Esther, have operated a community center in Eaton, Colorado, in a small barrio called La Gara. There they have worked to make a home for them and their new born son, Francisco;. Sanchez has campaigned for penal reform and said he feels penal institutions would be changed if people only knew what was going on inside. He does not regret his time spent in La Tuna. He said it was one of the most productive times of his life.
Caption1: Robert Padilla
Caption2: Brian Sanchez
Caption3: Bob Romero