Grand juries(Editor's note: American activists have long decried the widespread use of the grand jury investigation as an assault on both civil liberties and on those designated enemies of the American system. Rumors are now circulating concerning the formation of a grand jury in Boulder to investigate two recent bombings in Boulder county. The following article explains the rights and other information of interest to those called before a grand jury.)' During its heyday in the McCarthy era, the Internal Security Division of the Justice Department had a staff of nearly 100. By the mid-sixties when anticommunism had become less popular, and the people had become aware of the racist, imperialist nature of the government, the ISD has dwindled to a mere handful. Under the Nixon regime, the ISD again became a priority and the staff increased to about sixty people. The ISD chose to charge its main weapon of repression from the congressional subcommittee to the grand jury for one main reason; ‘secrecy.’ The congressional hearings were public people other than the immediate witness could hear the questions asked and the response so the illegal actions of McCarthy and his cohorts eventually raised a public outcry and were stopped, even though many lives and careers has already been ruined This drawback does not affect the Grand Jury inquisition, because it goes on behind closed doors, and even the witness' lawyers can’t be there. The use of the Grand Jury was really great for the ISD for several years. They could question people in secret, and that is a good way to get people to distrust each other. If sisters and brothers didn’t have a strong unity and trust, there was always the idea that others had talked, and that you could only save your-self by talking tot). But since Nixon got Congress to pass a law including “use" immunity the idea of saving your skin does not work. The ISD tries to get two or more people to talk, and can use one person’s story to convict the other because “Use” immunity only means that your own testimony can’t be used against you, not that you can't be tried. Using these methods the ISD was able to do several things. They have gathered huge amounts of information that they can use to connect people to causes, acts, ideas and to other people. Because of this, it is not safe to give them even the most “harmless” information, because after they feed it into their computers and tie it in to all other things, they can use it against you and others. They destroy unity. They make people and groups stop working for the people and instead work to defend themselves. Some of the groups attacked by the ISD recently are the Catholic left, the Black Panther Party, VVAW, the Irish Republic Army, Venceremos and many others. The use of the Grand Jury on the other hand has given the ISD a lot of headaches. Their big problem is that whenever they get an indictment and the case is brought to trial, and the people hear the real issues, it is discovered that the charges are without fact or basis. With the ISD discredited by all of this, and some of their dirty tricks revealed in the Watergate hearings, they are again pretty much defunct. But the feds still need to gather information, and they can do it without the ISD.Here in Denver we have two grand juries going on, and facts from both will be fed into the files. One is the Federal Grand Jury in Colorado, and the other is the Denver County Grand Jury of DA Dale Tooley. There are few differences in the way the two operate. The Denver Grand Jury can offer only transactional immunity, which is better, but it still causes a lot of trouble for your sisters and brothers if you talk. Other differences are that the Denver Grand Jury has 12 members and lasts 12 months, while the Federal has 23 members and lasts 18 months. We don't know yet how much, if at all, Tooley will abuse the Grand Jury idea, but the feds have given a lot of good ideas on how far they will go and some of the tricks they will use. They will subpoena people to testify with as little as a few hours notice, too little time to get legal advice if they are not prepared, (That is what this pamphlet is all about.) They will ask questions going beyond a specific area of investigation, something they couldn't do in a regular court. They can try to trick you into answering “harmless” questions, and then get a judge to say that by answering, you have given up your sth amendment right (to refuse to testify on the grounds that what you say may be used against you) by “opening a line of questions.” An example would be if the prosecutor asks if you own a car. If you say yes, they could be able to force you to answer a related question like. “Tell the Grand Jury about every meeting you drove to in that car, who rode in that car with you, where those meetings were, who was at those meetings and what was said at those meetings," and so on. JAIL. They can try to force you to testify by trying to get you for contempt of court if you refuse to testify after they give you one of the forms of immunity. The procedure can work amazingly fast. You can get a subpoena, make a motion to quash (stop) the subpoena, have an initial hearing with the Grand Jury, refuse to testify, have an immunity hearing before a judge, a second appearance before the Grand Jury, a contempt hearing (if you refuse to talk a second time) and go to jail for refusing to testify, all in as little as a day and a half. In spite of all of this, we urge a policy of non-collaboration, of refusing to testify or answer any question, for several reasons. The whole purpose behind immunity is to scare people into talking. If they know there is a strong sense of unity and that people won’t give in to the pressure, we have found that they are less likely to use this tactic. Also, we have found that there is a good chance of getting people out of jail after contempt convictions while they are being appealed. Further, if a few people give in and collaborate, it can weaken a group or movement. On the other hand, if people stick together, we can actually turn things around and build solidarity amongst us by showing strength and unity and sister/brotherhood. This doesn’t apply only to full time activists. Often they know that those people will stick together and so instead they call relatives, friends, and people on the edge of the movement and try to get them to talk by isolating them. So for the sake of us all, we have to reach out, to make sure as many people as possible know what can happen, what to expect, how to get help and who to call. If you or anyone you know gets a subpoena for a Grand Jury call the National Lawyers Guild at 893-1014. We are located at 1450 Pennsylvania St. No. 28.