Day of solidarity-
20,000 gather for PR independence
Unity marks Puerto Rican Liberty Rally in New York
Puerto Rico, a small Caribbean Island a few hundred miles south of the tip of Florida, has been a colony of the United States since the turn of this century. This relationship has been quite fruitful for the US. Last year alone, US corporations reaped over one billion dollars in profits from the Island economy, of which they control 80 percent. But for most of the 3 million residents of the tiny island and the 2 million who have come to the mainland, the American dream has been more of a nightmare. A deep economic crisis grips the island where the cost of living is 25 percent higher than here in the US, and 30 percent of the work force is unemployed. For the Boricuas trapped in the decaying cores of various American cities, life is no better. They have replaced the Chicanos and Blacks at the bottom of this country's economic scale. Just as dominance and exploitation have been legacy in Puerto Rico, the nationalistic struggle for independence has also prevailed. Nothing New Independence has been an issue in Puerto Rico from the 16th century to the present. This past year, a United Nations Committee on colonialism recommended that Puerto Rico be granted its independence. Two weeks ago in New York’s Madison Square Garden, 20,000 people gathered in a display of solidarity for the Puerto Rican Independence Movement. Contingents from other countries as well as 25 states, including a group of 30 Colorado Chicanos from Denver, Greeley, Boulder and Fort Collins participated. Denver’s Rudolfo “Corky” Gonzales of the Crusade for Justice joined with other speakers in offering support for the demonstration. He stressed the fact that Boricuas and Chicanos are fighting together hand in hand. “Tambien quedo dicer que en una poema dijemos. La vida y la muerte son quates, vamos a bailar!” Because we feel that anything that’s worth living for is worth dying for and anything that’s worth dying for is worth living for ... so if the politicians cannot change the legislation to give Puerto Ricans their freedom, Puerto Riquenos have to take things into their own hands," Gonzales said. “If policemen have the authority to carry guns because some major authority gave them that authority; if soldiers have the right to kill because some fool in San Clemente signs a paper; then we have the right to authorize ourselves to liberate ourselves,” he added. Our Struggle Among the many speakers was Black Activist, Angela Davis who said support for Puerto Rican Independence means more than just sympathy for a people. “You see, we have to understand that when we raise the cry for the Independence of Puerto Rico, it is not out of charity, or it is not a question of abstract justice,” she said. “It’s a question of struggling for our own freedom.”
Ms. Davis rebuked the claims that Puerto Rico is just a small country who needs the US. “Remember they said that about another small country," she said, "Cuba!" The program’s keynote speaker, Juan Marti Bras, Secretary General of the Puerto Rican Socialist Party called for a US Bicentennial without colonies. “The agents of the structure of power in the United States have decided to carry out great celebrations in commemoration of the two centuries of independence of this country in
He said his people had made one mistake, “When we discovered Columbus.” The Native Americans have not made the other common mistake, they have not given up their liberty. “We are still free,” Means said. The four-hour-program was sprinkled with music from the best revolutionary groups from many parts of the world including: IntiIllimani of Chile; Grupo Taone and Lucecita Benitez of Puerto Rico; Wounded Knee Traditional Drum and Song Group of the Lakota Nation; and Ray Barreto, Pete Seeger, El Grupo and Chris and Joann of the US. The Ballet Chicano dc Aztlan from Denver was scheduled to perform but was unable to make the trip to New York.
