Violence is often used against farm workers(Editor’s note: The following story is a sworn deposition given by one Michael Drake, who went to California to work with the United Farmworkers of America in their struggle against the Teamsters. Drake’s statements document the type of oppression the farmworkers' are fighting.) I, Michael Drake do declare that: I am an organizer for the Communications Workers. 1 was arrested on the morning of July 20, 1973 along with hundreds of other United Farm Worker pickets for violating an unconstitutional injunction. First we were taken to the Industrial Farm in Caruthers. We were there for a few hours and we had not been fed. We then organized a demonstration asking to be fed, after the police repeatedly refused to feed us lunch. Some policemen then came outside and pointed nine of us out as the “ringleaders” and booked us. We were then taken to the Fresno County Jail where we were put with the most serious felons in a place most commonly referred to as the "hole”. Those strikers I was in the “hole” with were Pablo Rodriguez, Frank Campos, Juan Salazar, Mike Gonzalez, Juan Galvan, Eluterio Castillo, Elisio Mendiola, and Gilbert Gonzalez. We were refused phone calls until late that night when the lawyer came. We were also refused showers, bedding, and clothing. We slept on the floor with just a blanket. A policeman named Gomez brought a. felon named Tony Susitiata into the cell, and he (Gomez) asked us if anyone wanted trouble. Gomez then threatened to put one of us into Tony’s cell. I was pointed out as the only “gabacho” (white) in the cell. Later, Officers Gomez, Weiss, and three others (whom I can identify) took me out of my cell and locked me in Tony’s celL Weiss said, “OK.. Tony here he is. Keep him company for a while:” When I asked Weiss why he was doing this, he answered, “We have our reasons.” Tony and I got along well so after a while the police put me back in the “hole”. About 9:30 that evening the cell next door threw newspaper out the door and started a fire. The fire burned for about a half hour and the cell was filled with smoke. It was very difficult to breathe. At approximately 10:00 I heard someone outside the cell say, “I need some more fucking hose." The door to the cell opened and I heard one of the policeman say, “All right you dirty, fucking Mexicans come out.” There were two lines of policemen on either side of the hall carrying sticks, clubs, and pieces of hose. One officer hosed us down with a firehose. We had to run through the lines of police and as we ran they proceeded to beat us with their weapons, as well as shoving and kicking us. The police then made us run through the” gauntlet” again. After a while we were taken back to our cell two at a time. That same evening Weiss finally answered my question of why 1 was taken to Tony’s cell. He replied that it was because 1 was the "main agitator". Two men from the Justice Department came the next morning and suddenly the police were very courteous and quickly supplies like bedding and new clothes were appearing. People were beginning to be released that day. The police refused to feed Juan Galvan, Mike Gonzales, and I because they said that we weren’t acting right One officer (can identify) said to me, "How was the barbecue Saturday night Drake? If you had a match we can hose you down again.” My injuries from my stay at the jail include: cut over right eye, from a stick, a bruised left shoulder from a kick, an abrasion on the right elbow, a bruise on the left knee and an abrasion on the right knee. Other men in the hole were hurt very seriously from this act of brutality by the police. The police whom I witnessed acting in the foregoing manner were* Gomez, Weiss, Hamilton,Arrendando, Barber, Badge 12, Badge 41. I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct Executed in Selma, California on July 25, 1973.