Dedicado a— Los Siete Boulder
Y la lucha continua
Nos hacen falta
by Juan Espinosa
Francisco Dougherty
a estos seis soldados
By Dan Casias
This issue is dedicated to our six brothers and sisters who lost their lives in the recent car bombings in Boulder: Reyes Martinez, Neva Romero, Una Jaakola, Freddy Granado, Heribierto Teran, Francisco Dougherty, and to Antonio Alcantar, the lone survivor of the second bombing. Los siete were soldados of the Boulder Chicano community and of el movimiento; they worked towards a cause helping our Chicano people. We join las familias and all who loved them in mourning their great loss. The memory of our brothers and sisters will remain with us as we continue to struggle in el movimiento. Their spirit will live on.
We marched across the hot. cracked pavement as we had done so many times before, marching with Reyes for nothing more than a fighting chance for those who had none, justicia. But this time it was different. As we lined up behind the casket of Reyes Martinez and walked down the streets of Alamosa, each person seemed to want to be alone with his own thought of the moment. Each person walked alone. There were no banners, no shouting and no talk. We had come to bury our friend. The thoughts of each person as the silent march from the church to the cemetery were probably as varied as the number of people who attended. How does one remember a friend? Do you remember the private Reyes and the way he would step back from you. his hands spread, with his palms up. indicating his helplessness in enabling you to grasp the particular point he was making, he and you both knowing he was putting you on. Or did you remember the public Reyes and the articulate way in which he defended the interest of and the viewpoint of
Chicanos in many and varied situations? Perhaps you remembered neither of these and remembered something that had significance to only you. But in all the memories, death and its circumstances are always a third party. Because everyone who remembers Reyes and what he stood for has to naturally remember next what he was killed for. Fiy the people who watched the tragedy in the familia Martinez and knew Reyes through the years, his death has a particular message in the context of the struggle he left behind. As each act of the tragedy is played out. we discover more about the nature of the “they’* with whom we struggle and the weapons they will use. As the march neared its end and the cemetery came into view, the silence was broken. As we turned down the small dirt road to the cemetery. people sought each other out and talk began. The march was over, but Reyes in life and death had now become a part of the struggle we now live with.
Reyes Martinez, "his biggest weakness was that he always wanted to share." were the words of a long-time family friend of the Martinez family who knew Reyes as a boy and watched him grow to a dedicated, young, energetic lawyer, "a soldier of the Chicano cause.” It has been said of Reyes that his office was his car. he had a passion for defending the poor oppressed Chicano’s faced with legal problems, often saving our Chicano people from having to lose their dignity, and step down from their own rights. Reyes wanted to share with them. He criss-crossed Colorado several times a week* to defend Chicano and poor people in court, most often refusing payment for his services. It was for this reason that Reyes went into private practice for a short time, leaving the Colorado Rural Legal Services, so that he would not be limited in legal services he could offer to those he sought to help. A leader of a cause. Reyes was a staunch and firm believer in the Chicano movement. He grew up
in Alamosa in the San Luis Valley, and lived the struggles in the barrio. From then on he was dedicated to helping his people to overcome the struggles of oppression in any way he could, his most recent was that of an attorney. After graduating from Adams State College in Alamosa. Reyes entered law school at the University of Colorado in Boulder in 1970. After three years of hard work and dedication. Reyes won his degree there last June. He began law practice shortly after for the Colorado Rural Legal Services in Alamosa. Reyes was determined to continue fighting in the struggle to overcome oppression and seek justice for the Chicano people. Reyes’ death comes as great loss to all who knew and loved him. and another setback for the Chicano community, for there is one less attorney working towards an end to the injustices imposed on our people. Reyes’ determination, his goals and his passion for defending the poor will live with the spirit of the chicano movement.
Florencio "Freddy” Granado was one of three victims of a bomb blast which fragmented a car: an already tense community: and an era of Chicano activism. In an instant. Freddy’s life was ended and shrouded in mystery, the legend of his days was born. Who was this man who lost his life that warm May night? ! know only that Freddy was from Laredo. Tejas. He was a Chicano. a vato. a husband, a father, a feared adversary and a friend. He was a former president of UMAS. a volunteer worker for the United Farm Workers, a member and candidate of El Partido Raza Unida. a founder and editor of El Escritor del Pueblo, and a soldier in the struggle for Chicano liberation. In his 31 years he was able to understand and accept his role in life. His accomplishments will speak for themselves. I would like to speak about the man —for everybody knew of him. but few really knew him. Freddy was a heavy rapper. He knew who the enemy is and openly confronted him. Whether it was Denver Councilman Eugene DiManna, former militant Reies Lopez Tijerina. State Rep-
resentative Beatrice Benevides (who he referred to as a “jet-age malinche”). the University of Colorado administrators or the pig. Freddy met them head-on. Freddy was known, mostly by. his adversaries, as a bad ass. but even they .were aware of his keen mind. He had the ability to see through the lace and get to the truth. He was one of the first to use the term institutionalized racism to describe the manner with which the University manipulates minorities. A little over a year ago. Freddy coined »he term intellectual militancy. It was a term he used to explain his philosophy of Chicano newspapers. He was convinced that people were basically good and if they knew the facts, they would make the right decisions. He dedicated his newspaper. El Escritor del Pueblo to giving the community the facts over-looked by the controlled press. El Escritor served Denver’s northside community for over a year, but few people knew Freddy was behind it in fact he produced the newspaper almost single handedly. Freddy with his farmworker background, his aborted college education, and his limited writing skills took it upon
himself to start a newspaper simply because he saw the need for it. We spent many a night over a six-pack and a pica rule molding him into an instant journalist. By his third issue. Freddy was able to produce a journalistically sound community newspaper. His friends are putting together the last issue of El Escritor —a memorial issue to its founder. Fredily loved and was loved in return. He cried for his fallen brothers and now it is he who is being cried for. He gave respect to his elders and gained theirs. But. it was the young that Freddy had a special feeling for. He believed they were what he was all about. He lived in struggle so that they would taste the victory he has now lost forever. The first time I met Freddy was the day after he was elected UMAS president in September. 1971. I asked him if he had a philosophy that he followed. He told me. “If all Chicanos followed these words, then the movement would have no problems: If I advance. follow me; If I hesitate, push me; If I betray you. kill me; If I’m assassinated, avenge me: Until victory forever.” Hay te watcho. Freddy.
"Teran was a man of ambitions; he looked forward to seeing his people develop economically, politically, and socially." Heriberto Teran grew up in the barrio of Tejas, the school of experience where he learned about poverty, hunger, and repression; the barrio was a school within itself. Teran was an idealist and a realist at the same time. One could see the seriousness and sincerity of this man when he sang corridos and revolutionary songs at rallies. and was generally happy; he sang all the time. In his views towards other people's oppression, Teran felt this was something that should definitely not be taken for granted, but instead saw the movement as something very real. He didn’t see any other way out of our oppression but to struggle; everyone was going to have to struggle to make the movement function. Mendoza believes that Neva, Teran, and Freddy Granado are just a handful I of people that have died in the struggle and that people must realize that more people are going to die in the struggle. "We’re losing valuable soldiers of the movement, honest, sincere dedicated people on a day to day basis, but at the same time other Chicanitos are being born that will follow in the footsteps of our people who have died in the struggle, they will follow in their commitment and dedication to the movement.
Ed. note. It is with much regret that we knew very little about Francisco Dougherty. The following is taken from individual accounts and vague memories of people who knew him. Francisco Dougherty was a 22 year-old Chicano activist from Laredo, Texas. He had come to Colorado only four days before he was to become the victim of an explosion that would take the lives of his boyhood friend Heriberto Teran, and Florencio Granado. Francisco wanted to become a
doctor and work with his people. He recognized the need for movement doctors who would offer their services for their people, and struggled to become one. He, like other Chicanos, was forced to work summers in order to finance his education. He came to Colorado hoping to work with the Colorado Pinto Project —a program for ex-convicts. Upon completing a summer with the program, his intentions were to return to Texas and continue his education. We join the brothers and sisters from Texas in mourning his death.
Ed. note. The following article was written by Esterban Mendoza in memory of Heribierto Teran. Mendoza chose to write the article in Spanish because "Teran was from Texas, Teran was very nationalistic, and Spanish is a very beautiful language.” Esteban had this to say about Teran: Heribierto Teran fue un carnal de corazon con todo la raza. Era de los barrios de Laredo Tejas. Siendo del barrio, el fue educado en la escuela de la pobresa, el hambre, sufrimento y repression. El estaba con su pueblo hasta el fin. El vivio con su gente, hacio entre su gente y murio por su gente. Pues, con eso, cuando el gente neccasitaba gente Teran alii se encontraba. Teran fue un hombre de muchas ambiciones, como poeta, el ha puesto una gran cantidad de poemas que fueron publicadas, incluyendo el corrido ha nuestro hermano y camarada Richardo Falcon. Como consejero en el Colorado Pinto Project Teran luncho por alludar ha los vatos que hansido victimas de las injusticias que el gobierno propone inponer en todo la gente pobre. Como organ izador en las communidades el desempenaba toda clase de trabajos en la communida d, de campesino ha consejero Teran estaba dispuesto ha hacerlo. Approximadamente en Mayo del 1969, Teran se matriculo en la Universidad de Colorado para principiar sus estudios y la vida lujosa de estudiante. Poco despues comenzo ha participar en las actividades de UMAS (United Mexican-American Students) y
alii tambien el se encontro combatiendo las injusticias que el systema Universidad imponia en los estudiantes Chicanos. Sobre todo la ambicion mas grande de Teran fue de ver al so Pueblo Desarollarse economicament, politicamente, culturalmente y un sentido de igualdad entre toda su gente. No cabe duda que este hombre permanecio dedicado tanto como con cuerpo, mente y alma, al movimiento Chicano ha cualquier nivel alii estaba. Realista, idealisja y sincero son las palablas con que podia describire a Teran. Era alegre la major parte del tiempo y ha la vez cuando se trataba de Temas sociales surgia la seriedad y esto se podia ver cuando cantaba corridos revolucionarios o presentaba sus obras poeticias. El representaba una minoria de individos que se encuentran en el movimiento Chicano que no son opportunista, profesionales, envidiosos o parasitso. Trabajo con la gente por los sueldos mas mininmos, hunca espero llegar ha scr rico. En el surgio muchas veces las teorias y philosofia del general Emiliano Zapata, el gran insurecto de la revolucion Mexicana, las cuales eran sinceras y firmes siempre para el beneficio del Pueblo. Ricardo Falcon y Heriberto Teran practicaban y predicaban lo que dijo Zapata, que "La Tierra le pertenese al hombre que la trabaja." Por eso cl apoyo al movimiento compersino en Colorado, Tejas, California y en donde se encontraban luchas contra la repression. Como van despareciendo nuestros valiosos soldados como
Teran, Falcon, Neva, Granados,, los hermanos Martinez tambien de dia en dia estan surgiendo otros que segiran sus pasos en cl movimiento. Bueno carnales y carnalas, Dios los tenga en sus Santas manos. Nunco nos olvidademos de ustedes.
Reyes P. Martinez
Florencio Granado
Heribierto Teran

Una Jaakola
Una Jaakola, the small town girl from Bemidji, Minn., was a sympathizer of the oppression of Chicanos and was interested in working towards improvements and goals for Chicano people. Una cared about all people, and through her own special way, overcoming her quietness and shyness, she offered her assistance anywhere she felt she was needed. She always wanted to be a socialworker, she wanted to share with others. Una graduated last year with a degree in sociology and in
psychology. She was now more socially aware and ready to do her part for the socially oppressed people. Una was doing just that, when she met her death. Una was a frequent observer and participator in Chicano related functions frequently accompanied by the two people in Boulder she loved most Reyes Martinez her boyfriend; and Veronica Vigil, her almost constant companion and roommate. Una believed in everything she did for people. Her spirit will remain with us and continue to live on.


Neva Romero
How can we begin to describe I our CARNALA. our sister NEVA? How can we explain to you her heart, her mind, her love I and dedication for El Moviemiento? How can we even begin to describe our feelings of ' how she is, even now, being 1 missed? Neva - strong, committed. proud. Neva - intelligent, clear minded, and frank. Neva - kind, considerate, and unselfish. Definitely, her strongest attribute was her sinceredad. She loved little children. Her one wish was to learn to master the Spanish and English language in order that she could become a teacher, a helper for her people. Neva spent one semester in Mexico and was planning to attend a University there again next Spring. She gave extra effort to upper division classes last semester so that she could be eligible to enter the Education Department. She was a determined person with an unselfish goal in mind! Neva loved the familia she was part of and worked forcefully and in a positive way to make gains for them. Last spring when she learned of a bilingual educational proposal scheduled to be reviewed in Boulder, she informed an organized people to appear at those meetings to stress the importance and necessity of a bilingual-bicultural program for the Boulder Valley schools. Many interested Ra/.a came and spoke to the Board. Neva, herself, addressed the school board saying. "I see my culture dying.” She blamed the public schools for failing to support the Chicano
culture. Neva felt deeply about the injustices imposed upon our people. She was equally committed to learn and share with others her thoughts, victories, and setbacks. In the fall of 1972, Neva worked long hours studying the composition of the administration of the University. She ran for ASUC Senator, (the student government), and she was elected to the position along with four other Chicano students. From that time on she became a voice for the Chicano student Raza and worked towards their goals. Neva had high hopes of politicizing others. At parties, at ASUC Senate meetings, in classes, everyone she encountered remembered her rap. She always had room in her heart for those not so involved. She always listened to other's ideas and interpretations. I remember her once telling me. "My mom told me once. Don't talk to people, talk with people." Neva practiced that. Neva never lost touch with her brothers and sisters just entering el movimiento. She was open to and welcomed criticisms and new ideas. She was involved in the movement and encouraged others to also become involved. She tried to help others see the beauty and necessity of el movimiento and all the good feelings that came out of being involved. She was strong, forceful, committed, and proud. She questioned everything. In her own soft-spoken way, she got heavy when it was necessary. Her frankness, sometimes scared people, especially those in ASUC. She wasn't afraid to face up to anyone, argue a point with the administration, or with a brother or a sister. She realized that she would not receive complete harmony within the movimeiento in her life-time; she worked for future brothers and sisters. She i worked unselfishly. Neva's kindness and concern took her many places where cl movimiento was taking place. She went where she was needed, even at the expense of personal time, to work and organize. Picketing, marching, speaking, working the movement lived within her. Her friends were numerous and widespread. Anyone who met her never forgot her because of her beauty and sincerity. Hatred and jealousy were a waste of time. She had a great love for her people and got strength from them. She learned from those she worked with and helped they were a constant reminder that the struggle had not ended. She never lost her patience or her goals, or had second thoughts or regrets about her involvement. Neva's commitment, input, criticisms and suggestions were indispensible. What Neva stood for. what she worked for will not be forgotten Y se me matan en el cambati, toma en tus manos mi fusil. (Che). Ld. note, the profile of Neva Romero was written by Theresa (ialleyoes. a Chicano Student who shared many experiences with Neva through their three years in Boulder, were roommates for two years, and both attended the University of Mexico at the same time.
