Cartas-Cartas-Cartas Cartas
Lozano complains
In the article, “Agreement reached at TB-I" of I 1 de junio de 1974 (p. I), there is no mention whatsoever made of the time and effort spent by Professor Rodolfo Garcia, as mediator, during the negotiations which lead to the establishment of the Inquiry Board for the UMAS program. Professor Albert Ramirez contributed a proposal which was discussed in depth during these negotiations. during these negotiations. If we as Chicanos arc going to achieve a sense of mutual respect, cooperation and unity, we are going to have to recognize the contributions of fellow Chicanos in a fairway. The press, including El Diario. have given credit to Vice-Chancellor Corbridge for working out the agreement of May 31st in spite of the fact that all the mediation leading to the agreement was contributed by Professor Rodolfo Garcia. One of the speakers at the banquet last Saturday spoke of the "familia” in which all of us contribute our efforts to the improvement of the life of Chicanos. if we expect such a "familia” to become a reality, it will have to show the positive characteristics that we know exist at home including respect for older brothers and sisters and parents. The type of language recently directed at Professor George Rivera would never be tolerated in a real "familia.” We have seen several key instances when mutual support has not been given by Chicanos to other Chicanos during these last few months. We must be willing to give such support to each other and avoid attacks on Chicanos by other Chicanos. Differences should be worked out in private. Sincerely yours, Anthony G. Lozano Associate Professor of Spanish
Chile-lips No. 3
(Editors note: The following racist letter was originally sent to Mayor Penjleld Tate, condemning Chicanos for honoring all Chicanos who have died in the straggle to end human oppression.) Dear Mr. Tate: 1 am writing you this letter on my views of the recent Memorial March in honor of dead Chicano’s. This march was the most idiotic thing that I have witnessed in all my life. These so called Chicano s disgraced by their march and chants of “Chicano Power”. .This appalled and enraged me and my family to see such a thing happen on the Independence day of our nation. The persons who were killed in separate bombings incidents died from their own stupidity! If the rest of the Mexican's don't like the way the matter is being treated, or for that matter, the way they are being treated they can all pack their bags and get their asses back to Mexico I also understand that these idiots had to come to you and get permission for their march. So Mr. Penfield Tate, the only thing that I can say about your actions is that you are a damned idiot! When the residents of Boulder finally realize what kind of nut they have running their city and kick you out of office, the better off they will be! Sincerely Yours: P.S. these people that call themselves Chicano*s arc nothing but plain mindless Mexican’s! Jerry Prka 601 Lathrop St Houston, Tx. 77020
Movement thoughts
Many questions are asked about who or what decides the direction of the Chicano Movement. For example, what is the philosophy or how many philosophies are in the movement? Let’s start by saying that the decision of the direction and philosophy of Movement are made by Chicano activists and no one else. Chicano activists are the ones who get involved with their community, attend meetings, organization committees. demonstrations, national, state, and community conventions, and who join in the picket lines. A Chicano activist is one who docs all these things, not one or two of them, but all with commitment to their people from the love of their corazon. Chicano activists who are struggling for the liberation of their people will decide the direction of the movement, not any gauchupin opportunist. This is very important for the summer students to understand and develop so they can see for themselves who are the Chicano activists who love their people, and those Chicano professional vendidos who will and have sold out their people for jobs, money, and power. Those people who say there is more than one Chicano Movement, more than one philosophy, more than one direction; and that we can work with the corruptive system, are the ones who will and have used the movement and our people for their own benefit. It must be understood that these cagados will not make any decisions in movement, they will not be the ones to gain from the movement that will lead to the final revolutionary victory to end
Dr. George Rivera slumps on table as one of many students who confronted the professor in his July 18 UMAS class, makes his allegations. The students charged that he had lied to them about not being able to deviate from his class syllabus; he had not given them a ‘‘real" choice on test days; and he had fostered division within the UMAS community. The students challenged Rivera to an open debate following the meeting because they believed he effectively circumvented the students who confronted him in his classroom. Rivera refused.
oppression, exploitation and the discrimination against our people in Aztlan. I strongly encourage the Chicano students to look at their teachers and the staff and if they do fit the above descriptions, get them out of their positions in UMAS-EOP and out Of the Chicano Movement! Que Viva Aztlan Antonio Bonsell



