News briefs news briefs news briefs news brief
CCRC finds for Reyes
The Colorado Civil Rights Commission has informed Remegio Pete Reyes, former UMAS president, that the City of Boulder government probably discriminated against him after Reyes applied for the city position, and was denied the job. Reyes, who is now a lawyer with MALDEF. filed a job discrimination complaint with the CCRC almost a year and a half ago (see the 20 de Febrero, 1973 El Diario for more information). Reyes applied for the Director of Human Rights position, but the job was given to a Anglo male. Harvey W. Hollis, Civil Rights Specialist for the CCRC. wrote to Reyes saying the CCRC had ‘found probable cause, meaning that...you have been discriminated against.” Reyes contends that the three member selection panel consisting of Barbara Jones. Les Olson and Euvaldo Valdez had picked a white male for the job “when we were all equally qualified for the job.” Part of the complaint calls for the hiring of more Chicanos by the Boulder municipal government. which employs over 500 workers. However, in the officials and administrators category at the city, only one Chicano is now employed.
Other complaints Two other Chicanos have recently filed complaints against the city of Boulder for job discrimination. Both Angelo Velasquez, Boulder County OEO. director, and Phil Hernandez, University Affirmative Action Officer. filed complaints with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) after they applied for the Director's position in the department of Human Resources. Coincidentaly. both their complaint and Reye s charge involve the same city department. Valasquez' and Hernandez' complaint is especially important in light of recent actions by many employers to circumvent federal guidelines requiring the hiring of women and minority-group workers. Since the employers are required to hire both women and minority group workers, they often hire an Anglo woman as "the lesser of two evils." An action of this sort is probably legal, but the employer follows only the letter of the law. ignoring the spirit of the law. The City of Boulder government has proposed an Affirmative Action hiring plan for implementation in the near future, but City Council has not approved the plan.
ATTENTION! The UMAS-EOP Tutorial Program would like to announce that we will be accepting applications for tutoring positions as of August 1st. The following is a list of qualifications: 1. 3.OGPA 2. Junior, senior, or graduate status 3. A sincere concern for helping your fellow brothers and sisters overcome their academic difficulties. A Tutorial conference will be held, consisting of workshops, training sessions, and guest speakers on September 6th through 13th, 1974. Please stop by TB-I No. 205 to pick up an application. By August 23rd all hiring will be completed because of tutoring workshops which will be held during the following week. If you can not stop by the office, call 443-221 I Ext 8316, leave an address and we will send you an application. Alfonso Fuentes UMAS-EOP Tutorial

