Court dates set for Chicano soldados
Many movement leaders and activists will once again be going to court over the next few weeks as a result of constant political efforts to repress, harass, and destroy the Chicano movement. Gary Garrison, Jose Calderon, and Brian Sanchez, three of the movements better known activists, will be going before courts this month. Gary Garrison will be coming up for a re-trial date Oct. 5, in Ft. Morgan, on charges stemming from a so-called bombing attempt of Bones Paint Store. Garrison's original trial of Sept. 16th., was declared a miss-trial because of the pre-trial publicity handed out by the Denver news media. Garrison is charged with attempted murder. First degree arson, second degree assault, and criminal mischief. He is being framed for the alleged crime of Jan. 13, in which three sticks of dynamite were supposedly thrown through the window of Bones Paint Store. The bomb did not explode because, just as in all the other similar supposed bombing attempts the ‘ police” arrived just in time to disarm what they called “sophisticated devices.” $10 Million Garrison was arrested Jan. 16, only a few hours after a press conference announcing a $10 million suit against the Rocky Mountain News was held by the Crusade for Justice, (where Garrison is a teacher and former manager of Colonia Luis Junior Martinez terraces, an apartment building next to the Crusade). The suit attacked a Jan. id "news” article that referred to
Kiko Martinez as a "fanatics” and a "save the world zealot.” It also claimed he was "armed and dangerous.” Garrison’s bond was set at $100,000. He was released two days later on a personal recognizance bond. On Jan. 24, he was summoned to appear before a Denver Grand Jury. When he appeared he was rearrested with bond set at $50,000. While in jail, the D A. bargained with Garrison offering him a "deal.” If he would plead guilty to the criminal mischief charge, all the other charges would be dropped and he would be assured probation. Knowing that the D.A. had no basis for his case. Garrison refused the offer. Disruption Jose Calderon was arrested last August, when Chicanos prevented US Rep. Henry B. Gonzales (DTexas) from giving a speech at CU in Boulder. Three others, Jess Vigil, Chuck Koehler, and Frank Luevano were arrested and charged along with Calderon with disruption of a lawful assembly and interference with an educational institution. Calderon is the last to be tried on these charges. (Charges were dropped against Vigil while Koehler and Luevano were found guilty.) Calderon’s original trial on June 20, was postponed when Calderon's attorney, Ken Padilla, motioned "that because of the two recent explosions which killed five of six movement activists, there exists a near mass hysteria regarding Chicanos who are associated with the UMAS organization of CU or otherwise associated with
any Chicano group or organization that seeks to secure the civil rights and or economic or political power for Chicanos." The motion went on to state, “The recent events in Boulder have caused many Chicanos who are CU students to leave the country and there are others who are on regular summer vacations, making them unavailable to testify.” Judge Dana postponed the trial until October 30, in Boulder. Brian Sanchez will go to court in Ft. Collins, Oct. 31, to determine the legality of evidence against him. He is charged with assaulting a CSU campus police officer and resisting arrest last February. Seeking directions Brian was to perform in a theatre then on the CSU campus. Seeking directions to the student center’s east ballroom, Brian entered the center’s kitchen. While in the kitchen he picked up what he thought were empty boxes to carry some props in. An employee in the kitchen told Brian to stop stealing the paper cups, which apparently were in the boxes. Brian replied that he wasn't trying to steal anything and left the boxes behind. While preparing for the theatre performance, a “pig” approached Sanchez and told him to go to the kitchen to talk. Sanchez refused, but told the officer they could talk right there and subsequently offered him a chair, which the “pig" then threw at Brian. A scuffle took place when the "officer” tried to force Brian into the kitchen. Unsuccessful, the "officer” called for additional help. Other "pigs” arrived, taking Brian into the kitchen and locking the door. Refusing to be handcuffed, for fear he would not be able to defend himself, Brian struggled with officers until his wife entered the kitchen through another door. Upon her arrival, the confrontation stopped. CSU campus police supposedly have pictures of the officers with black eyes and bruises. However, there is conflicting reports as to the exact dates of the pictures. In other cases, 14 UNC UMAS students will be going to Weld County Court in Greeley for their
part in taking over a campus building. Their trials will be held Oct. 22-26. J , . . Randy Esquibel and Judy Sandoval will go to trial Jan. 16 in Boulder for allegedly painting movement slogans on university walls.
Also in Boulder, John and Danny Salazar, charged with assaulting a police officer and resisting arrest, stemming from an August party, at 817 Pearl St., in which 24 "policemen” harassed the occupants, will appear at a pretrial hearing Dec. 1 9.

