2,000 attend Solidarity Day2,000 Chicanos attend 'Day of Solidarity'DENVER — The old cliche “It’s a small world” took on a revolutionary meaning here as more than 2,000 people gathered on the steps of the State Capitol on a warm March 17 to join in solidarity with the Crusade for Justice and to hear many of the nation’s and the world’s leading activists speak. The demonstration, commemorating the St. Patrick’s Day Massacre at the Crusade one year ago which left Luis “Junior” Martinez dead from police bullets, drew a list of speakers that looked like a log of “Who’s who in activism.” They came from as far away as Puerto Rico and Chile and represented peoples of all colors. The protestors marched to the capitol from various locations throughout the city. As they converged on the capitol, policemen kept a distant but watchful eye from a helicopter; some patroledthe parade in both marked and unmarked cruisers, complete with dogs and riot gear; and at least one plain-clothesman infiltrated the crowd wearing a bullet-proof vest. At times the helicopter swooped so low that the noise drowned out the words of the speakers, but the demonstrators were not intimidated and the march and rally were carried out peacefully and successfully. The participants carried signs proclaiming “Viva Luis”, “Free Mario Vasquez,’’ and “Raza Si Racists No”. The afternoon events were frequently broken up by shouted “vivas” and rhythmic applause. beaded ornaments, feathers and braids pounded on a ceremonial drum and chanted traditional songs and Chicanos wearing Mexican sombreros danced and sang corridos. The music did not distract the demonstrators from the purpose for gathering. The songs reflected the struggles of the people and one corrido sang by Los Alvarados told the story of March 17. Since the unprovoked police confrontation at the Crusade two Chicano defendants, Ernesto Vigil and Louie Ramirez, have been acquitted and charges against a third were dropped. A fourth, Mario Vasquez was found guilty of assault and is presently serving a sentence in the state reformatory. All policemen involved in the incident were cleared of any wrong doing without having to stand trial. Although the events of a year ago were the focal point of the four hours of speeches, the topics often broadened to other subjects including the Chile coup, Wounded Knee, La Migra and drugs. The speakers included: activist attorney William Kunstler; American Indian leader Russell Means; Chicano leaders Rodolfo “Corky" Gonzales, Mario Cantu, Bert Corona and Jaime Rodrigues; Puerto Rican leader Ramon Arbona of the Socialist Party; and Fernanda Navarro, executive secretary to Mrs. Hortencia Allende, wife of slain Chilean President Salvador Allende. Mrs. Allende had been scheduled to speak at the rally, but a Crusade spokeswoman said she could not attend because she was denied a visa by U.S. government officials. Los Tres del Barrio, were also unable to be present because the judge in their case (a former law partner of Nixon) would not grant them permission to travel while out on appeal bond. Corona of the Centro de Accion Social Autonoma (CASA) set the mood for the rally when he highly praised the Crusade and the people of Denver. "Buried here in these mountains are the most destructive forces in the world (NORAD), but also here are the people the best organized who fight for workers and oppressed peoples —for that we respect you we love you,” he said. "We're here in support of Blacks . . . Wounded Knee ... the Crusade for Justice . . . and a free Puerto Rico. We are also here to oppose the Chile Junta and La Migra," he concluded. Cantu, also of CASA, drew enthusiastic applause of the crowd when he shouted, "We have come not only to say we are a Chicano Movement but a Revolutionary Chicano Movement!" Arbona told of the continuing oppression of Puerto Rico by the U.S. Imperialist. He said he had received word just that day that his party’s headquarters had been attacked and two persons had been wounded. "Everytime they attack every time they kill a Luis Martinez, this happens,” he said as he pointed to the thousands of demonstrators. "Let's not fool ourselves, it is going to be a long struggle and a difficult one. We will suffer more massacres. Let’s leave today with one task in our minds organize organize organize," Arbona said. Before the next speaker, Ms. Narvarro, was introduced the Ballet Chicano of the Escuela Tlatelolco performed in her honor. They also did a special dance dedicated to Luis Martinez, who was the instructor for the group when he was killed. Ms. Navarro played tape recorded message from Mrs. Allende which was barely audible over the make-shift public address system. The message was in part: "Today when the people of Chile are living their darkest moments, demonstrations like the one you are having are not possible.” Mrs. Allende assured all supporters of the Chilean people that they would be victorious in their struggle because "liberty and justice are on our side.” In her address, Ms. Navarro, quoted Chile’s greatest poet, Pablo Neruda, who died a few weeks after the "unprecedented” bloodbath which followed the coup. "It is a deep wound, but not a defeat,” she quoted the poet. The CIA, ITT and the Chilean bourgeois were responsible for the overthrow of Allende and the subsequent massacres of Chilean peoples, she said. "We have a common enemy. Organize yourselves here in the belly of the monster . . . for although we are thousands of miles apart, we are together. Our struggle knows no boundaries.” She concluded her talk with another quote from Neruda from his poem "Death in the Square.” Neruda was talking about another massacre in the poem, but when he called for the people to bring the murderers of the masses to justice she said the message was the same regardless of where the injustice occurred. Jaime Rodriguez from the Committee to Free Los Tres, explained why the defendants (charged with assaulting a federal agent who was selling drugs in the barrio) could not be present. He said the attack on the Crusade was not only an attack on one organization. "It was an attack on a movement and we are here to respond. We're not taking that shit anymore.” The mother of Luis Martinez was introduced by Corky Gonzales. "Keep struggling like this and my son will never die," she told the audience. Gonzales also introduced Ricardo Romero, a deaf-mute, who Gonzales termed the feather-weight Champion of Aztlan. Gonzales praised the speakers who had joined the demonstration and called them “some of the greatest humanitarians the world has ever known.” He then proceeded to give an abbreviated history of the Crusade, which he founded. In its history the Crusade has given its full support to the farmworkers struggle; it has began an alternative school when the Chicanitos were not being treated as humans; it began an independent political party; it traveled to Tierra Amarilla in support of Reies Lopez Tijerina; it has taken a stand against drugs; it was a pioneer in the anti-war movement; and it has backed the student movement, he said. "When we proposed in independent Chicano party, we were accused of starting a racist party. What do you mean, we said, you already have racists parties." "America is back to doing nothing, but we will continue working," Gonzales assured the crowd. He cited the current streaker craze as an indicator of the state of the nation. "We ought show a picture of some of these students asses with a caption ‘Back to normallancy’,” he said. He emphasized the importance in building strong organizations as the first step to entering into coalitions. That strength was evident in the crowd, he said as he looked out. "I see some old revolutionaries out there. They have been waiting for you young people for a long time and now they’re ready." More chanting and drum beating preceded the keynote speeches of Means and Kunstler, following their introduction by Ernesto Vigil, who was shot in the back by police at last year's St. Patrick’s Day. Means is presently on trial on charges stemming from last year's occupation of Wounded Knee. He spoke of the rally’s unity theme in Indian terms. In Lakota, he said, there are four sacred colors because four is a sacred number.It signifies the four winds, directions, and peoples. The colors are red, yellow, black and white. Together they make brown, he said. "We saw those colors come together at Wounded Knee," People of all colors fought, starved and prayed together. He turned his attention to the upcoming 1976 bicentennial celebration. "The whiteman has the gall to celebrate a birthday of 1776 that was built on my blood on your blood. This nation’s birthday will not be a happy one,” he promised. "We call on everyone everywhere to participate in blowing out the White mans candle,” he added. Means told the crowd that the members of the American Indian Movement expected to "get it on" again this summer in Montana where plans are being made to strip-mine two-thirds of an Indian reservation there. "They told me George Washington is the father of this nation and I believed them,” Means said. . . ."That is, until they showed me his picture of a White man .... with white powdered hair ... a fluffy blouse . . . wooden teeth .... and pink tights.” Kunstler then took the megaphone and preducted the Second American Revolution before the second anniversary of the first American Revolution. "We are gaining strength every day,” he said, "This rally is just one example of that strength.” He suggested how to deal with Nixon in saying, "We should have the White House surrounded by human beings who would not let anything in or anyone out then we would starve the bastard out." "Que viva Puerto Rico Libre”, "Que Viva la Raza”, "All power to the people," Kunstler ended his talk.Historic March 17 - in picturesPhotos by John L. Espinosa Patty Garcia Jose Medina Danny Salazar
Mario Cantu
William Kunstler
Russel Means
Mrs. Marquez
Corky Gonzalez
Bert Corona
Fernanda Navarro
Ramon Arbona