International NewsSAN JUAN, PR. A machine-gun attack on the night of March 16 seriously wounded seven persons, including two leading members of the Puerto Rican Socialist Party (PSP). The attack took place in front of the Impresora National, which prints the PSP newspaper Claridad and also at the newspaper’s editorial offices two blocks away. The attackers were unsuccessful when they attempted to bomb the print shop but later, as their car passed by Claridatf s editorial office, the terrorists sprayed the building and immediate area with gunfire wounding five persons. The two PSP members, Manuel de J. Gonzalez and Domingo Vega had been wounded moments before as the car they were riding in approached the Impresora Nacional and was fired on by the attackers. Persons on the scene have identified one of the terrorists as Felipe Diaz, a member of the Young Americans for Freedom (YAF). YAF is the organization founded by Sen. Barry Goldwater and is associated with the rightwing of the Republican Party. Claridad has published reports which document CIA financing and organization of these small terrorist groups.Wounded Knee defendants "There are few trials," said Kenneth Tilsen, a defense attorney for Wounded Knee defendants Russell Means and Dennis Banks, "in which every day there is a new revelation of government misconduct. This is one of them.” The defense has filed several motions to have charges dropped against Means and Banks, leaders of the American Indian Movement (AIM). The defendants face lengthy jail terms if convicted on government charges following the 71-day seizure of Wounded Knee, S.D. Defense attorney Mark Lane outlined the main reasons why the defense is seeking dismissal. First, evidence of illegal wiretaps of conversations among the defendants by the FBI has come to light. Government officials lied. Lane said, telling attorney’s earlier that there were no illegal wiretaps. Further important government witnesses have perjured themselves while giving testimony. Lane said. In addition, dismissal is sought because the government is suppressing evidence of benefit to the defense lawyers. Joseph Trimbach, the FBI agent who heads the Minneapolis Bureau and supervised FBI activity at Wounded Knee, apparently lied when he took the stand last week to state that he had "never participated" in the making of an affidavit seeking a wiretap. The actual trial is now in recess while the evidentiary hearing into government misconduct continues. 
Political trials Forty-nine officers who were under the command of former Marxist president Salvador Allende will face trial by Air Force prosecutors at the Santiago Air Force Academy. The officers are charged with “sedition, treason, espionage, and attacking the sovereignty and foreign security of the state. The Air Force is asking for the death penalty in some cases and a total of 350 years imprisonment for others. All of the defendants arrested since the September 11 military coup are being held in Air Force garrisons and regular prisons under the worst conditions including torture and force labor.Junta calls up reserves TASS news agency reported on March 20 that the Chilean military junta has called up for military service all reservists under the age of 33. The order, signed by General Pinochet, gives no reason for the injunction under which tens of thousands of Chileans will be forced to enter the military. The newly drafted servicemen will be used mainly for around-the-clock patrolling of the streets of Santiago and other cities, as well as for administrative functions which the junta entrusts only to the military.