Editorials| March 17 What does it mean? | 1 La Gente from many walks of life, of different colors, creeds, and concerns-congregated at large Sunday afternoon on the capitol grounds. To many outsiders, it was simply another in a long array of marches and rallies enlisting social dissidents to "speak their piece" promoted by the Crusade for Justice, the ulcer of Denver’s Chicano Community. And to many insiders, it was a chance to listen to the “heavies” while circulating pretentiously among friends, acquaintances, and others. Unfortunately, from my participant observer standpoint, many observers and non-observers left the thrust of the demonstration dangling. Perhaps Ramon Arbola, P.S.P. chairman put it in proper perspective when he said at a press conference on Monday morning: "This is the first step in terms of coming together. We need to unite our struggles in a joining effort.” An idea not totally new, but one that was unrecognizable three or four years ago, and presently must be considered to be in a fledgling stage of development. Perhaps the concept of “solidarity and unity” is nothing new. But perhaps the effective implementation os such an idea is new to Chicanos. Particularly in regard to Chicano Nationalism. Chicano Nationalism in the past has been the rallying cry for many Mestizos branded “Mexican-Americans” for reasons of logistics based on some imperialistic boundaries. It has been an effective organizing tool and will continue to be as long as the various ill-maintained and unjustifiable circumstances, conditions and prejudices continue to shape “reality" for us. But Chicano Nationalism isn’t enough. The “Chicano Renaissance” of the sixties has generated some awareness and opened some eyes to the dilapidated state of existence we as Chicanos are forced to call "life.” But the “Renaissance is mearl legacy. Ricardo Flores Magon in the early 1900’s after fleeing Mexico with his brother, Enrique, founded the Mexican Liberation Party and organized at least 6,000 members in Los Angeles around the cry of conquering “land and liberty for all. And likewise the Tiburcio Vasquez', the Juan Cortina’s Pancho Villa’s, Emiliano Zapapta’s and others, not to mention the ones "history” has conveniently denied, who were struggling for that basic right, “land and liberty for all.” Yet, that fire ignited by those sparks of the past rekindled s E today approaches a new horizon: that first step--“uniting our struggles in a joining effort”-bringing all people with the common enemy together. Perhaps it is just the natural progression in a systematic approach to mass organizing. But is it a fundamental and an important step for Chicanos. Something that our ancestors, for what ever reasons, were unable to do, and something that we, for whatever reasons, are embarking on. But just as important to this effort of “solidarity and unity,” we must remember it is because of those before us-- our ancestors, our parents-that we are able to take this step, not in spite of them.