Student organizations protest coverage of Boulder bombings
We, UMAS-Boulder, UMASC.U. Denver Center, Chicano Law Students, MECHAMETRO State College and Farm Labor Task Force, protest and deplore the police biased and police based news coverage of the recent car bombings in Boulder, wherein, several Chicanos. all active in the Chicano Movement and all close friends, were killed. We believe there are considerably more similarities between the Monday, May 28th and the Wednesday. May 30th bombings than the so-called police/fact that ‘‘there was an explosion inside a vehicle”. Keeping in mind that the police suppositions are but possibilities too, we believe these similarities raise the possibility of an unknown, outside third party conspiracy to murder selected “targets” that are active within the Chicano Movement Could this be part of the nationwide conspiracy documented by the FBI memo? We do not buy the police theory that both tragedies were the result of accidental detonation of pro-assembled bombs by the car occupants or of accidental detonation during assembly. This theory not only relieves the police of investigating facts that tend to deflate their theory, but also gives them the opportunity to accuse, try. and convict our dead brothers and sisters, who can no longer defend themselves. This theory presupposes that those killed were incredibly stupid or out to commit suicide. Obviously, this is not true. Additionally, the police seem to be using the hysteria created by their theory to obtain scores of search warrants that are being used to harass and intimidate many innocent people. We are also shocked and dismayed at the callous treatment given by police authorities and news media to la familia Martinez. They were not contacted by police authorities regarding their son. until Wednesday afternoon, despite the fact that they were releasing his name as a potential victim Tuesday morning. The media had had a Held day treating charges, allegations and rumors, if released by the police, as tact. Again, our brothers and sisters are being portrayed as crazy, violence-oriented militants and not the people they really were. It the police can prove their theory, then let them come foreword with the evidence. Until then, their theories and suppositions should be treated by the news media as theories and suppositions and not true fact. There are too many uninvestigated facts and unanswered questions that need to be investigated and answered before we will know the truth. For further information contact Chicano Law Students. University of Colorado. 443-2211. ext. 8845. Dan C'asias. chairperson. Manuel Lopez, vice-chairperson.

