Un pensamiento
para Francisco-Cuauhtemoc Sanchez y Martinez nino nacido en el otono, Chicanito brotando de la bella cosecha del amor carinoso, que tu vida sea como una cancion' aclamando vuestra liberacion . . . when you have passed through all seasons of life, and the light of moon and sun have burnished thought/feelings reeling through the fragile, yet beauteous, filaments of mindsoulbody, and when you have at last experienced the mountains, valleys, rivers, clouds, plains, and oceans of esta majestuousa tierra, may you be able to look back understandingly and bask in the love your parents shall have showered upon you. Francisco-Cuauhtemoc, llevas ya en tu ninez dos nombres fuertes que simbolizan la lucha ensemillada de nuestro pueblo . . . you and others of your generation have been born into the most propitious of times for raza —for the clarions now begin to sound a new and glorious call hacia la liberacion popular, and within the legacy of struggle which shall mantle your feelings does there gestate freedom’s tintinnabulation . . . those of us who have marched, sung, shouted, and acted/lived toward the articulation of human liberation and the affirmation of our Chicano culture and language have but touched the surface, striving as we have to concretize a base for the vitalist assurance that our people will do more than barely survive, and you, soldadito Chicano, shall participate in the emancipation of our people as a familia. nino, hijo de mis companeros Brian y Esther child conceived in love, within the spirituality of carnalismo, la raza receives you and awaits your voice to lilt out yet other songs of liberation . . . you are loved for more than the bronze hue of your skin, for more than your natality ... you are loved for the uniqueness of your youness as it coalesces with the collectivity of our people . somos uno en el proceso historico y en la lucha enbellecedora de la libertad. as you begin to co-exist with all the oppressed people of the world, arm yourself with truth, dignity, justice, and human worth .am your culture and language, nino, y busca la liberacion en coyuntura con toda gente oprimida and share the meaningfulness of life by learning who you are, where you came from, charting out where you are going and how to get there within the context of our raza, within the context of all people . . . love is the genesis of movements and freedom, and freedom gives birth to creativity and peace .... you are fortunate to have parents and raza to gird you at the onset so that your adulthood can be a life of nation building lhacia la liberacion popular y un carinoso abrazo Chicano! Ricardo Sanchez
