Chicanos should support PR libre
The Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico are entangled in an economical and political struggle. The country has been subject to U.S. corporate business, which has drained as much as $22 million from Puerto Rico’s natural resources since 1952. The youth have experienced the systematic educational institutions which hinder the development of the Puerto Ricans language and culture. The people have been lead astray by corrupt reformists, which instill false and broken promises. Because of the high unemployment rate, currently 30 per cent of the potential working force, and because of the high standard of living, presently 25 per cent higher than in the United States, almost one-half of Puerto Rico’s population have migrated to US cities such as New York and Chicago. Searching for a better way of life, in this country, the I workers found that the same corporations exploited their labor here as much as in Puerto Rico. They realized that this country’s corporate profits are in the hands of the few families that control the economy in the United States, Mexico, Latin America and South East Asia; the Rockefellers, DuPonts, Melons, and Fords. In understanding this, the Puerto Rican people realized that they did not escape the oppression in
Puerto Rico by fleeing to the heart of the monster. Through this consciousness, the Puerto Ricans in the US established organizations to bring about unity among the people concentrated in the cities. Within these organizations they developed a theory of revolution and lined themselves in alliance with all struggling peoples of the world to bring about a universal struggle against U.S. imperialism. Reestablishing strong ties with their homeland, the Puerto Rican people now understand that it is necessary to reject the reformists, and opportunists and prepare for one thing in mind, a free and independent Puerto Rico. On Oct 27, 1974, 22 Chicanos from different areas of Colorado were able to express and feel unity - with Puerto Rican people, realizing that our struggle is their struggle, for our enemy is one and the same. Now we, the Chicano people must realize that people cannot be liberated until they are willing to fight for it And, we can never be free, if the brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico and all oppressed people are free! Que Viva Puerto Rico Libre! Countries want Independence* Nations want Liberation* And the people want Revolution! Christina Lucero
