Their only crime was being Japaneseby Kathy KandaMariagnes Uenishi Medrud was 14 years old when the FBI arrested her father and the U.S. Justice Department incarcerated her and rest of the family. Her crime being Japanese. Sentence two and one half years in a federal relocation camp, and two years separation from her father. She never got to defend herself in a court of law, neither did the more than 112,000 other Japanese who were also imprisoned, even though two thirds of them were American-born citizens. On Dec. 7, 1941, Japanese bombers attacked Pearl Harbor, igniting anti-Japanese feelings on the mainland that had been smoldering for decades. Mariagnes remembers her best friend not being permitted to talk to her. She remembers being afraid to walk in certain areas of Seattle, where she had grown up. But the most “traumatic” occurrence was “the night the FBI came after my father,” she said. Her father was a partner in a small produce market business, who immigrated as a young boy and had since lost all connections with his homeland. Nonetheless, he was one of about 2000 people who were arrested in three raids during January 1942. Perhaps he was singled out because he spoke some English and was considered somewhat influential in the community, or maybe because he taught kendo, the Japanese sword-fighting martial art. The government held him for two and a half years and “he has never known the real reason,” Mariagnes said. Of the 2000 JapaneseAmericans arrested, few had any direct ties with Japan most were harmless old men who were denied citizenship by the 1924 National Origins Act. Buddhist priests and community leaders made up most of this group. Executive order 9066 In February 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066. The order called for the immediate removal of all Japanese people from the West Coast. The people had ten days to sell or store their possessions and were told to report for relocation with only as many things as they could carry bedding, extra clothes and eating utensils. Within one month, 112,000 Japanese in California, Oregon and Washington had been placed in 15 temporary assembly centers to wait for completion of inland camps. These centers were mostly located in racetracks and fairgrounds. The evacuees had to clean out horsestalls, repair them and build their own furniture. There was little privacy one family to each stall inadequate medical facilities and communal bathrooms. In November, they were moved to permanent Inland camps which were built in 10 of the most isolated areas in the country. Mariagnes and her family were moved to Minidoka, Idaho, “sagebrush country.” She and her mother, brother and sister, lived together in one 14x20 feet unit. Privacy here was also nonexistent. For some people, there was “a certain feeling of security and protection in the camps, especially the older people...no longer having to grub for a living,” she said. But for others it was an extremely difficult experience, primarily the young adults and their parents. There was nothing to do and “if you went out of the gate, you could be shot.” Family ties, once strong and meaningful, were weakened by the communal life style. There was no work for a while and families were no longer dependent on the men, but on the U.S. government. Labor demands in menial occupations such as farm work provided some release, but little money. And they always had to return to the camps. The only way out was to join the armed forces and, while many young men were fighting in Europe, their parents were imprisoned in American concentration camps. The all Japanese 442nd Regimental Combat Team was to become the most decorated unit in the war and suffered 10,000 casualties more than three times its original strength. In spring 1944, Mariagnes’ father was reunited with his family at Minidoka and they were all released in January 1945. Almost all the evacuees were out of the camps by the end of 1945. They had proved their loyalty to America. No Cause It is interesting to note that throughout the war, there was not even one proven case of Japanese subversion or espionage. Though German and Italian espionage activities did occur, those nationalities were not incarcerated After the relocation experience, some' Japanese went back to the West Coast. But for others, the memory of being rejected was too painful and they went elsewhere. The Uenishis went to New York. Though the government had promised to store their possessions, most of their things disappeared from small appliances to businesses and the losses totaled millions of dollars. Later they were offered monetary compensation at an exchange rate of about 10 cents to the dollar value, hardly worthwhile. “My father didn’t even want to discuss it,” Mariagnes said. He wanted to “start a new life" and “blank out” the evacuation experience. “Perhaps that’s the quality that makes Japanese resilient...to put things behind and keep, going to survive,” she said. Until recently, MaFiagnes herself considered relocation “something we didn’t have to experience but did...an unfortunate, bad period in history.” “I had hoped America had learned something." But during the 19605, then-Atty. Gen. John Mitchell threatened to place Black radicals and student demonstrators in camps. “The potential for it to happen again is there,” she said. “It’s an issue that can’t be allowed to die. Racism is always thought of in a benign kind of way. But in this country, the potential for extreme racism is there, like in South Africa. “But we have some recourse through the courts, though sometimes not.” Mariagnes and her husband moved to Colorado in 1966. She remembers hearing about a young Japanese woman who abandoned her baby in a trash can in Denver. Japanese-Americans “had truly assimilated,” she thought to herself. Prior to the war, this would not have happened, because the woman’s family would have taken care of both her and the child, Mariagnes explained. “The Japanese (as a group) have made it, yes, in the material sense. But as far as I’m concerned, as long as you’re non-white, you’re a minority and you face discrimination,” she said. It might be subtle, unintentional racism, but it is there. And unless the public is aware of the relocation, it can and will happen again.Photos from exhibit “Executive order 9066”