Mas cartas. Vasquez. Mario Vasquez writes El Gallo, the Denver Chicano newspaper based at the Crusade for Justice, received the following letter from Mario Vasquez, a former Crusade worker who was imprisoned after the March 17, 1973 police attack on the Crusade. Your letters and thoughts give me strength and happiness that knows no limit. The times I've shared with you all have taught me more than I ever hoped I would learn. I send my deepest feelings of gratitude and love. Oppressors will use anything to try and stop a struggling people from winning. Propaganda, drugs, police tactics, and prisons are just a few, but in our unity we find strength, the weapon to overcome all this. I've been reading books about the Tupamoros and other guerrilleros in Latin America, about the Indians, the North Vietnamese peasants, and to the people who are struggling today against the same monster who is trying to control the world by destroying us. Through education we overcome the psychological chains that have kept us enslaved, and we liberate the feelings of revolution we've had inside for so long. I know that with your support, I will continue to be part of Our movement no matter where I am. Here, as everywhere I go, I tell our Brothers about "Corky," Luis, the Escuelas, Kiko, La Raza Unida, the Black Berets, and of political actions taken by my people. I would like to write you all individually, but the cheap suckers only give me two stamps a week. (I sure miss those Wednesday lunches!) Tu hermano de la lucha, Maria Due to the recent harassment of Chicanos by Boulder area "law enforcers," it has become essential for the Chicano community to protect the interests of the community against such harassment. It is for this reason that the Chicano Police-Relations Committee, a component of the UMAS Student Organization, informs the community that "law enforcers" have been entering private property without legal reason to be there. At the recent hearing for Judy Sandoval and Randy Esquibel on April 11, 1974, at the Boulder County Court complex, UMAS Chairperson Mike Carreras confronted Lt. Dave Evans of the University Police Department. Carreras said that it was lucky he (Carreras) had recognized him (Evans) and Officer Bill Perea, who were snooping around his home, instead of mistaking them for prowlers and taking action against them as prowlers. However, Lt. Evans denied any part of being near Carreras' home, but indicated that the alley behind Carreras' home is a public freeway. Strangely enough. Carreras had never mentioned the area where the "law enforcers" had entered the property, the alley. This is only one of many types of harassment, not to mention the "platoon" of police photographers who surrounded the Boulder County Court complex and photographed any Chicano entering and leaving the complex, and taking this license plate numbers the day of Judy Sandoval and Randy Esquibel’s hearing. Police law enforcers are urged to wear illuminous’ uniforms to run the risk of being mistaken for "prowlers," since all the officers are not known by many of the community and shouldn’t "snoop around" without making their presence known. Also, we would like an answer to the reason why the "platoon” of police photographers are present at Chicano functions, i.e. rallies, dances, homes and court appearances. Sin Mas Chicano Police Relations Committee. Meet Bill Perea. He is a member of the Police Investigation Group (PIG) of the University Police. He is presently investigating the recent bombings in the Boulder area and apparently believes Chicanos are responsible. He has been seen roaming around the campus disguised as a Chicano student complete with backpack and ski boots.