Junior High Clash Cools
A potentially dangerous situation with serious racial overtones has hopefully been resolved between parents and students of Anglo and Chicano children at a Boulder junior high school. Monday afternoon, school officials of Burbank Junior High School at 290 Manhattan Drive were confronted by about 30 Chicanos including parents, students and University students. Spokeswoman for the group of parents Delia Valdez told the school's Principal, Don Reichert, the parents were concerned because the 10 Chicano children attending the school of 600 had been continually hassled by Anglo students and were not attending school out of fear. Boy Shot by pellet The harassment reached a peak September 26 when Mrs. Valdez’ son Roy was shot with a pellet gun as he rode his bicycle near his home. The youth suffered a grazed arm and three broken
ribs, the result of falling from his bike. It was reported Wednesday morning that a resolution had been reached between the Anglo and Chicano youths and that all of the Chicano youths except one were back in school. Pat Gutierrez was the only youth removed from school; his mother took him back to Greeley. Mrs. Valdez, said she and the other parents had agreed to give the peace pact a week before pursuing further action. Her husband, Roy Valdez told El Diario the two groups of youths were brought together Tuesday afternoon and talked it out. The trouble has been raging for two weeks. According to Mrs. Valdez, six Chicano youths, including her I 3-year-old girl, Linda, were confronted by a large group of Anglo students. Reichert saw the incident and broke it off. He estimated the crowd at 150, but added he didn’t know how
many youths were actually involved. No police were called to the scene. The young Chicanos at the school have complained of constant verbal abuse from Anglo students and one woman said her son had come home bloody from fighting at least three times. Bilingual what? In the first meeting with school administrators and parents, the question of bi-lingual education was explored. When Reichert was asked how he felt about the issue, he reacted as if he had never considered the question of bilingual education and would have to think about it. Mr. Valdez said he felt bilingual education could help avoid racial situations in Boulder schools. “The kids would understand each other better and be aware of their cultural differences." School Board refusal At the school board meeting that same night, board member Pete Garcia attempted to • introduce motions dealing with bilingual education, but he could not even get a second. He said after the meeting that he wanted to
implement a "rear' program, not the less-than-adequate token bilingual program the board claims to meet the need. A year ago, the School Board refused to approve a federal funded bilingual program although it would have cost the district, the taxpayers and the schools nothing. Garcia was asking for a .25 mil levy increase in the 4.9 mil levy increase being proposed by the board. He said this small increase would provide approximately 70,000 badly needed dollars for bilingual education. This proposal was not even considered by the board. He questions the Boards’ priorities represented in their proposed $31,646,000 budget. This represents an increase of $1,898,000 over last year he said, but excludes cultural education. No seconds for Garcia At that same meeting, Garcia requested that $50,000 of the $100,000 reserve left from last year’s monies be earmarked for bilingual education again no second. In a desperate attempt to get the board to consider any proposal he asked that $30,000 be added to the $187,000 proposed for to meet inflation again no second.
Despite the recent brush with racial troubles in the schools, the school board appears to have taken an unshakable stand against bilingual education. Yet in the school’s library where the trouble took place, there are only two books dealing with the Chicano experience. Neither has even been checked out. One of the books, dealing with migrant children, paints a picture of poor, desperate people, whose household heads drink too much, hit their wives and children and who are satisfied slaves.
Pete Garcia tries to implement a ‘Teal" program, not the less-than-adequate token Bilingual program at a recent Boulder School Board Meeting. He was not supported by the Board.

