Agreement reached at TB- l
by Jess Vigil
The 19 day-old occupation by Chicano students of UMAS-EOP Administrative offices in TB-1 ended May 31, after a favorable agreement was reached between students and Vice-President for Minority Affairs, James Corbridge. The following is an almost day-to-day account of the occupation: On Monday May 13, 1974, twelve Chicano students barricaded themselves in the UMAS-EOP administrative offices. The action was taken to dramatize the need for viable student input into the UMAS-EOP Program. Those who took over the building felt this input could not be realized until Joe Franco, Director, and Paul Acosta, Assistant Director, resign. Hence, resignations were demanded. The occupants, along with 60 to 70 supporters refused to leave the building unless these demands were met. Prog ram "Whitewashed” The demonstrators were frustrated and angry because they felt that students were slowly losing control of their program; the program under the direction of Franco and Acosta was becoming more “white-washed”; and the program was losing more students than were being recruited. Specific allegations were: that few summer program planning sessions were held; (the demonstrators charged they were not enough) that the program had been designed by Franco and
George Rivera, alleging Rivera had a "strangle-hold” on the program and had successfully prevented the implementation of a Chicano Student Movement, a course which would have introduced the students to the movement. that Franco and Acosta never kept office hours; they were never in when students needed them. that the program was not committed to turning out movement doctors, lawyers, teachers, and organizers. that the program was not innovative enough, no room for change; remains the same year after year. Tradition was broken the first day of the occupation when internal hassles were publicly aired. The demonstrators felt that all other channels to resolve the problems had been exhausted. Students shouted to Franco, “We’re tired of you not keeping appointments, and We’re tired of negotiating." UMAS EOP is Dead Supporters on the outside burned a simulated cardboard coffin symbolic of UMASEOP and shouted. "UMASEOP is dead and all oppressors will be dealt with one by one.” Franco sided with the university Chief of Police John Towle in signing warrants for the demonstrators. Jose Ortega shouted to the people outside, “We expected the police to come before we even came in here, but the people here made a committment to stay." He said that if the demonstrators were brought down, they would “take Franco, Acosta and Rivera down with us.” The police took no action. Franco rejects proposal On Tuesday, the second day, BEP Director William Pitts, MAP Director Ricardo Martinez, Asian EOP Director Stuart Takeuchi and IndianEOP Director Charles Lohah drew up a proposal that seemed reasonable; although Franco rejected it. It would have required that Franco and Acosta take a leave of absence while an inquiry board would determine whether they should remain in office. Franco later indicated that he was willing to accept a
similar proposal and agreed to meet with the students that evening; however, he failed to appear. At about 10:00 P.M. it was learned that Franco and Acosta, after consulting Rivera and a few staff members, had been advised not to “give in." The occupation continued. The number of supporters grew and so did the continual “in-flow" of food and toilet supplies. Franco kept insisting that he had the support of 60% of the student body, and kept referring to the 59-40 vote of confidence he had received at an earlier UMAS student meeting. Students Vote On Wednesday, the third day, at a formal meeting with UMAS students and staff. 144 students voted for Franco’s resignation, and 14 against. A loud applause broke when the staff was asked it's position on the issue and the staff spokesperson replied. "If Joe and Paul go, we all go." While the vote was being taken Franco again, walked away from the students demands. On Friday. Franco returned to negotiate, at which time an impasse was reached. Franco and Acosta were unwilling to take a leave of absence. "I have a program to run." and I have to be here to defend myself." Franco said. The students insisted that they take a leave of absence because their presence would interfere with the thoroughness of the investigation and because they felt Franco and Acosta were "incompetent." Franco made no appearances for several days and the occupation continued. Letters of support came from all over the state, i.e.. Crusade for Justice. Ahora, La Voz de la Raza, A.1.M., Brown Berets, etc. More Allegations During this time, the occupants of TB-1 continued to dig through files uncovering documents to support their allegations. Other allegations claimed: that Franco and Acosta had overspent every program budget they had managed
since assuming their positions. After last year’s summer program Vice-President Corbridge told Franco in a memorandum; “The size of the over-draft would indicate to me a disturbing lack of attention to budget control or an irresponsible refusal to act in the face of a serious potential fiscal crisis.” UMAS-EOP overspent the summer program budget designed for 280 students while there were only 210 students enrolled. according to the statements of accounts for UMAS-EOP, Franco and Acosta had transferred monies from one account to another to cover overspending. the bulk ot honorariums, monies paid out for services
provided, had been going to non-Chicanos. that program monies had been used to send individuals loyal to Franco and Acosta to big name schools for admissions interviews. Overtime Pay “The last straw", the demonstrators say was when Franco and Acosta requested overtime pay for themselves to attend UMAS student meetings. Paul Mora said, “Maybe if Cesar Chavez could pay Franco to picket Safeway or Liquor Mart, we would have more movement involvement from the Director.” The Memorial Day Weekend was a long one, but the students seemed more determined than ever. The threat of police intervention still existed, yet they took no
action. It was evident that Franco and Acosta were unwilling to negotiate in “good faith.” A few days before, when negotiations appeared to be going well and an agreement in sight. Franco walked out. “I’ll see you in court," were his last words. Agreement Reached The students had no other choice but to negotiate with the administration. On Thursday, May 30, Vice-President Corbridge agreed to the student's proposal that an Inquiry Board composed of the following individuals be set up: Pete Garcia, Boulder Valley School Board member Jeanne Olguin, a Channel 9 broadcaster Tony Gutierrez, a St.
Thomas Aquinas priest j Joseph Lara, a Lady of Guadalupe parish priest Charles Lohah, the Indian EOP Director Stuart Takeuchi, Asian EOP Director Tom Vallejos, an UMAS EOP English Instructor Angelo Velasquez, a former MAP Director Jose Martinez, a former
MAP student. The following points were also agreed upon: that Franco and Acosta would vacate their offices effective May 31, 1974; that all files would be secured and turned over to the board of inquiry; that the Inquiry Board would begin its investigation; that the co-directors John Espinosa and Kris Gutierrez would assume responsibilities as Director of UMAS-EOP; that unconditional amnesty would be granted to all participants of the take-over. On Friday, May 31, after the 19 day occupation ceased, the demonstrators dispersed. Many went in different directions; yet all were not happy; for tragedy had struck close to home and six loved ones were dead. (See related articles.)

