Car bombings claim 6 lives
Contusion and speculation continue to plague the Boulder Chicano community in the aftermath of the recent tragic car bombings which claimed the lives of six people, on May 27 and May 29. On Monday May 27th Reyes Martinez, 26, an Alamosa attorney, Neva Romero. 21, of Ignacio and also an UMAS CU student, and Una Jaakola, 24, of Bemidii, Minn., a C.U. graduate and also Reyes' girlfriend; were killed at approximately 9:45 p.m. when an explosion ripped apart their car, while they sat parked at Chataqua Park. Witnesses have said the trio had just driven up a few minutes prior to the explosion. Second bombing Less than 48 hours later on Wednesday, May 29. a similar car explosion occurred in the parking lot of the Burger King Restaurant on N. 28th St. killing another three victims identified as Florencio “Freddy” Granado. 32, of Denver and former CU UMAS president; Heribierto Teran, 24, also a Laredo, Tx, former UMAS student and Francisco Dougherty, 22, of Laredo, Tx., a friend of Terans who had been staying with Teran only a few days before the explosion. The long survivor of the Wednesday explosion. Antonio Alcantar. 23, of Denver, remains in poor but improving condition at Boulder Community Hospital. Police Theory The Boulder Police have been quick to theorize that some kind of explosive device detonated inside the passenger compartment of the car. and believe that the victims in both incidents may have been assembling a bomb or some other type of powerful explosive when it accidentally detonated, in other words, the police theorize that the six were victims of their own haphazard work. However, Boulder Police remain silent on results of their investigation into both explosions, although the word is out that District Attorney Alex Hunter is considering filing criminal charges against Antonio The Boulder Police doubt Alcantar's story that he was hitchhiking from Denver Wednesday night when the three victims in that night's explosion offered him a ride. He said he had just returned from a beer purchase from the nearby Pudlik Liquor Store when the explosion occurred. Murder Conspiracy? Area Chicanos are extremely critical of the Boulder Police Department's theory. A statement released by members of UMAS. Chicano Law Students, and the Farm Labor Task Force and others from the chicano community theorize that the explosives in both bombings may have been planted in the cars and that the explosions may have been the work of a third party conspiracy to murder elements active in the Chicano movement. “All of the persons killed, were active in the Chicano movement and were close friends,” the statements says, indicating there were close similarities between the two explosions, raising the possibility of a murder conspiracy. Media Attacks Other allegations from Chicano community people are University students include: the Media’s police-biased” and “police-based” coverage of the bombings. The media have treated allegations and suppositions from the police as facts. the poor treatment the media has given the families of the victims. The family of Reyes Martinez, one of the victims in the Monday explosion, was not officially notified of Reyes’ death until Wednesday afternoon, although the media was already releasing Reyes’ name as a possible victim on Tuesday.— The Boulder Police Department’s unwillingness to explore other possibilities of the bombings, other than their own theories that the victims were assembling their own haphazard devices. the police harassment of Chicanos who have been followed, stopped and issued contact cards since the explosions. the media’s coverage of the Wednesday, May 29th blast in which the media had already tentatively identified Francisco Llevano as the third victim, even including stories about Llevano's involvement in the Congressman Gonzales incident last August. When in fact the victim was later identified as Francisco Daugherty. On Sunday. June 9, a memorial march was held in Denver for “Los Siete de Boulder”, the victims of the recent Boulder bombings.

