Name change causing confusion
UMAS-EOF (United Mexican American Students-Educational Opportunity Program) or CEPA (Chicano Educational Program de Aztlan), that is the question. Since UMAS-EOP was officially changed to CEPA in the early part of September there has been growing opposition. The name change was made without “official student approval” is the main gripe Gene Escalera, Chairman, Board of Directors, UMAS, said.
At a summer General Assembly UMAS meeting Juan Espinosa, Student Director of UMAS-EOP at the time, confronted the students on the matter of changing the name. “There was no response,” Juan Espinosa said. “There was not even enough interest to form a committee on the matter.” “I don't give a damn about the name change, either way. We talked about it for a year and when we finally did it, everybody started objecting,” he continued, in response to rumors implicating Espinosa as the initiator of the CEPA name. Kuo Suggested CEPA? Many have contended that Alex Kuo, assistant vice chancellor for academic affairs, came up with the name CEPA in which Espinosa passed along to the staff and students. Espinosa said that Kuo initiated the name CEP (Chicano Education Program) which was up at a staff meeting. Later, Alfonso Fuentes suggested CEPA during the staff meeting in which the name was voted on and accepted. Then Espinosa sent a memo to Kuo on Sept 12 informing him of the staff decision. Kuo denies initiating the suggestion of CEP even though he is in favor of the name change. However, a Kuo memorandum dated Sept 11 stated, “Based on the recommendation by the staff of the UMAS-EOP, UMAS-EOP’s name will be changed to the Chicano Educational Program de Aztlan (CEPA) effective immediately. “This new Program name more accurately reflects the interest and needs of the students served by the program, and better defines by
name the basic academic support nature of the program from the student organization UMAS, and avoids the unwieldy long title of UMAS-EOP.” UMAS-EOP received the memorandum Sept. 17. Espinosa said that there had been a previous memo sent to UMAS-EOP suggesting or stating that the name be changed to CEP but that it had been stopped and sent back to Kuo. After the staff discussions on the name change, students were questioned. Students answered a questionnaire while receiving stipends on Sept. 1 1. Ninety percent of the 300 students who voted favored the name change. “The question was biased”, Felipe Roybal, counselor coordinator, said. Besides this questionnaire didn’t mean anything officially because it was only a questionnaire, he added. After the name had been changed officially, (Kuo’s memorandum), an UMAS general assembly almost unanimously voted down the name change. Also a referendum taken during the board of director* and student director elections on Oct. 1 and 2, in which many of the ballots were lost, revealed student opposition to the change. Now a petition in opposition to the name change is being circulated. According to the Board of Directors Chairman Gene Escalera, approximately 600 signatures are needed to produce an UMAS majority decision. “Once it is signed they will have no choice except to return the name to UMAS-EOP," Escalera said.
George Hernandez, present Temporary director of CEPA said if the 600 names are accumulated and verified, “We will look into considering changing the name back to UMAS-EOP. Maybe they (UMAS organization and UMASEOP) should be differentiated by different names for more practicality.” But he said there are advantages to having the same name as well. “The hassle isn’t so much the name change but what we’re gonna change it to,” Espinosa said. “UMAS needs to change, it’s a fallacy. Mexican American is outdated. The term Chicano is more general, it incorporates a lot of people," Cleo Jaramillo, English assistant coordinator, said. “This is a lot of conflict over nothing. I don’t care what we call ourselves, we’re still the same people," Escalera said. Espinosa’s letter to Kuo explains why the staff accepted the name CEPA: “We feel strongly that the role of the program in education is better presented in the name CEPA. The major changes Mexican American to Chicano, the inclusion of Aztlan reflect our choice of names we choose to call ourselves rather than titles applied to us.” Incidentally, the word ‘CEPA’ in Spanish, our mother tongue, means a single root from which grows many branches. We feel this symbolizes our educational purpose to our Chicano community."

Caption: Ernesto Vigil from the Crusade for Justice addresses the press concerning conditions in cellhouse 7.
