Public enemy No. l-
Ford try ‘Fool-Nelson’ on US
The nomination of Nelson A. Rockefeller, of the richest family in the world* whose empire includes the world’s largest banks, and industrial corporations, that grip deeply into governments and people throughout the "free world," exemplifies the mentality of the controlling forces of this country today.
A look into the past reveals exactly what this man, one of five brothers who inherited a Standard Oil trust that has now multiplied and diversified into a mammoth conglomerate of nearly everything imaginable, is all about. Nelson Rockefeller was elected governor of New York in 1958. Although at first Rockefeller gave all the appearances of a liberal, progressive politician, he soon changed his position on many issues to reflect the views of an ever-more conservative electorate. During his reign, the New York state legislature passed a number of repressive laws including the “no-knock" law, which made it permissible for police officers to break down a suspect’s door with no warning; the "no-sock" law, which made it a felony to assault a police officer; and, the "stop-n--frisk” law, which allows a police officer to search anyone on the streets. Attica Yet the incident most typical of the Rockefeller mentality was his handling of the Attica prison revolt at Attica, New York. The inmates of Attica had been protesting prison conditions for years to no avail. They finally took matters into their own hands on Sept. 9, 1971, when 2000 prisoners took 30 guards hostage and took over control of most of the prison. The inmates sought a platform to air their grievances, demanding better food, the firing of the Attica warden, amnesty for their actions, and a chance to talk to Governor Rockefeller. Rockefeller would not make the personal appearance that might have saved so many lives. Instead, he ordered heavily-armed troops to seize Attica prison, which they did at heavy cost. Forty-four persons, including 10 guards being held hostage, were killed by the troops. Rockefeller received widespread praise for his actions. Then President Nixon said, “You did a great job, Nelson!" and Vice President Spiro Agnew said, "He’s a very courageous man.” Attica inmates are still facing charges and being punished for being victims in the Rockefeller - sponsored massacre. Rockefeller saw Attica as his chance to impress a nationwide audience with his ability to deal with a crisis in traditional American fashion. Those 44 men were murdered for the promotion of his political fortunes. The Rockefeller Fortune Rockefeller’s behavior while in office should be enough to justify denying him any government post, but only the tip of the iceberg has been revealed. The heart of the matter is the Rockefeller family and the huge amount of economic influence
they possess on the entire world. The Rockefeller family has a net worth of approximately 10 BILLION DOLLARS; in addition, they control over 250 BILLION DOLLARS more in corporations, banks, and other investments. The Rockefeller family’s long tentacles encompass most of the people on earth. The largest corporation they control is the Standard Oil Company, whose products are marketed under the names Sinclair, Humble, Exxon, Standard, Chevron, Enco, and Mobil. Their holdings extend beyond comprehension from computers to supermarkets, to television networks, to insecticides to peanut butter. It is not enough to control the economic life of a nation; instead, complete control is exercised only through a combination of political and economic factors. Rockefeller’s reign as vicepresident, and foreseeably as President of the United States, can only be seen as an expansion of selfish economic gains for the richest family on earth. The Rockefellers have already demonstrated the type of action they can take on an international scale to increase their tremendous fortunes. Influence With the birth of nationalistic movements in Third World countries around the world, American industrialists have had to move swiftly to retain their large holdings. Part of the Rockefeller move into government can be explained as an attempt to influence American foreign policy in regard to the new, generally antiAmerican governments in emerging Third World nations. Rockefeller’s influence in the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) can be seen throughout the Third World where many times leftist governments have been violently overthrown and replaced by pro-American, fascist governments. Perhaps the best example of this interference was the CIA-sponsored coup in Iran in 1953. After Premier Mohammed Mossadegh began nationalizing American oil interests and other businesses in Iran, a ClA led force moved to depose him. The new government of Iran was a dictatorship, extremely friendly to American business interests. The vast Iranian oil deposits then became the property of Standard Oil and other Rockefeller concerns. The same type of tactic was used in Guatemala in 1954, where a communist-elected head of government was deposed and replaced with a fascist general. The general was much more friendly toward American oil interests than his predecessor had been, and CIA had scored another victory for American imperialism and Rockefeller.
Buying Power The importance of having a Rockefeller in government was clearly displayed in Congressional hearings that revealed the large sums of cash the Rockefeller family has given friendly politicians. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, for example, was the recipient of almost 100,000 Rockefeller dollars. Many other politicians have received money from the Rockefeller coffers as a gesture of good faith. More recently, an investigation revealed that one of Nelson’s brothers hired an author to produce a derogatory book about his opponent in a 1960 gubernatorial race, Arthur Goldberg. Nelson has maintained that although he didn't have anything to do with the book, he did know about it. Just as he can stake other claims. Nelson is probably a very nonviolent person ... he can only order the wars; run the corporations that make the bombs; or install the dictators who torture the people. He is probably responsible for more misery and death than anyone else in history and he doesn’t even have to wash the blood off his hands. The United States' next vice president? (For a more detailed examination of the Rockefeller empire, write for a copy of** The Incredible Rocky vs. The Power of the People!” by Joel Andreas, to the North American Congress on Latin America, Box 226, Berkeley, Ca. 94701. One copy costs 75c plus 25c postage; 10-49 copies are 60c each plus 10% postage.)
