News briefs**Vil Garrote’’ MADRID, Spain The new government here has revised the 14th century method of execution garroting. Earlier this month, two political prisoners convicted of killing policemen were the First victims. In garroting, an iron collar is tightened until a spike severs the spinal cord. The executions, the first under the new government of Premier Carlos Arias Navarro, signaled a heightening of law and order since the assassination of Aria’s predecessor three months ago. The executions, officially called **vil garrote,” put to death Salvador Puig Antich, 26, a member of the anti-government Iberian Liberation Front, and Heinz Ches, 33, a Polish drifter. 
All Forgiving? VENICE, Italy (AP) A court has sentenced a former French priest to two years in a mental hospital tor insulting Pope Paul VI. The charges said Michel Collin, 58, called himself Pope Clement XV” and described Pope Paul as a heretic and usurper of the papacy. Collin lives in France and would be subject to the sentence only as he enters Italy. 
South Africa’s Prisons Out of every 100,000 people in South Africa, 417 are in jail at any given moment. This unusually high ration of prisoners to populations contrasts, for example, with the rate of 72.5 per 100,000 in the United Kingdom, 70 in France, and 25 in the Netherlands. Most prisoners are non-whites convicted under the numerous racial segregation laws. U.N. investigative communities reveal that beating and electric shock torture are common place. The severity of punishment ranges from long-term brutal imprisonment to very frequent executions. From 1968 to 1971, 340 persons were executed under various South African laws.7 bombs explode GUADALAJARA, Mexico (AP) Seven bombs exploded in Guadalahara and Oaxaca late last month. Three of the targets were American firms Pepsi-Cola, Coca-Cola and Union Carbide. No casualties or arrests were reported. The Pepsi and Union Carbide plants were hit in Guadalajara, Mexico’s second largest city. The extent of damage was not immediately known. Two other bombs exploded here in the headquarters of two supermarket chains. Summer program There will be a planning session for the 1974 UMAS-EOP 
Summer Program. Anyone wishing to have input into the program is invited to attend. Call TB-I, ext. 8836 for the exact time and location. Open house Wardenburg is having an open house for all students, on March 7, Thursday, from 3-5 pm. Refreshments will be available along with films, tours, displays and general information. “This will give those students that aren’t sick a chance to visit the clinic,” a Wardenburg spokeswoman said.