Cartas-cartas-cartas More movement thoughts
One does not suppose that Chicano activists are anything but gods if Antonio Bonsell’s word is held as valid. He states in a carta en El Diario. 25 de Julio, pagina 9, that, "Chicano activists who are struggling for the liberation of their people will decide the direction of the movement, not any gauchupin opportunist.” and he wants the summer students to recognize “those Chicano professional vendidos who will and have sold out their people for jobs, money, and power. " He says, “I strongly encourage the Chicano students to look at their teachers and the staff and if they do fit the (his) above descriptions, get them out of their positions in UMAS-EOP and out of the Chicano Movement!" If we are to understand that the movimiento exists to end "oppression, exploitation, and the discrimination against our people in Aztlan," as Bonsell would have us believe, can he (Bonsell) use power, the power of the press to usurp the rights of any Chicano teacher or Chicano start member? 1 submit that such power held above anyone’s head presupposes, in support of the all-powerful/omnipotent Chicano activist, the right of judgment that he wrestles from God. himself, for his own end. And that is, namely, a very specific and inhibiting staff/teacher members alike. The trait of sameness, or the valuing by many people of exactly the same thing has always been characteristic of the exact "gauchupin opportunist” Bonsell seems to fear.
1 disagree with his viewpoint and espouse the view that the individual Chicano has only to be true to himself to be true to his raza. 1 hear in Antonio's voice a much valued commitment to the people, which is, the literal causa of an activist, while manipulation, through the power of the press, which is synonymous to exploitation and oppression, amounts to exactly the opposite of that cause. Consequently, my goal with this, aspires to clarity for the individual without the pretense of heralding one’s own contribution, but merely expressing the thought of a Chicana individualist (sic). Individualism has always been strength in the Chicanos’ heritage. This strength that has maintained raza pride has also avoided the clutches of that famed "gauchupin opportunist’’: acculturation. Sin Mas, A Student

