Reverse discriminationby Dan CasiasA lawsuit pending before the U.S. Supreme Court claiming reverse discrimination in college admissions policies for minority students may soon decide the future of minority education in colleges. In DeFunis v. Overguard, DeFunis, an Anglo, has filed suit against the University of Washington claiming reverse discrimination in the University’s policy of admitting minority students under separate standards from Anglo students. DeFunis, now enrolled at the law school, was twice denied admission under regular standards. Minority Standards DeFunis claims that admission of minority students to the law school on a different standard than Anglo students is a classification by race, which was forbidden by Brown, and was therefore a denial of his equal protection of the laws. The U.S. Supreme Court has recently consented to decide a case that will have as much impact on minority education in colleges as Brown v. Board of Education did in the public education area. In 1954 the U.S. Supreme Court in Brown dictated that race could no longer be used as a basis for deciding which public school a student had to attend, ruling favorably for minorities and ending a century of court approval of school segregation. The case was decided in the light of the U.S. segregated school system. The court noted the unfairness of the system in it’s “separate but unequal" treatment of minority children. In the DeFunis case the Washington State Supreme Court decided that the state had a compelling interest, the only kind that would support a racial distinction, in providing minority lawyers. The court reasoned that since the purpose of the double standard was to correct the evils of segregation, it was permissible. The case was then appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, where it now awaits review. The U.S. Supreme Court's decision to review the DeFunis case has attracted a great deal of attention across the nation. 

Admissions attack At stake in the decision is the whole system of allocating acertain quota of admissions to minority students. If the court decides by one of the alternatives open to them that a state educational institution cannot base it’s admissions upon race, all such benevolent quota systems would be subject to attack, even those on the undergraduate leveL The long term effect of such a decision would be to ban such programs from admitting minorities even though that educational system discriminates against them. Part of the standards under which admission to law school is decided is the LSAT (Law School Admissions Test), a test which supposedly measures, among other things, a person’s ability to relate to and cope with legal concepts, which are based upon Anglo-American system of laws. It tests a person in Anglo symbols and logic and in this manner is culturally biased to one who has grown up dealing only in these symbols and logic. 

Local suit pending In a case pending in Boulder County Court, Mays v. University of Colorado, brought on grounds similar to DeFunis claim of reverse discrimination, the court is awaiting the outcome of the DeFunis case, before making a decision. Since the DeFunis case asks for a temporary restraining order against such admission policies, the decision in favor of DeFunis could affect the Special Academic Assistance Program for minorities at the University of Colorado school of law. An adverse decision could prevent the admission of minority students to law school next year. Similar suits could possibly be brought to attack undergraduate minority programs admissions policies, such as EOP (Educational Opportunity Programs). However, the degree to which they would be subject to such attack would depend on the exact nature of the upcoming DeFunis decision. 

Community effects An adverse decision could also effect the Chicano community in failing to provide for the community’s need for more Chicano lawyers to represent their interests. If the decision restricts education of minority students to become lawyers, Chicanos will continue to be inadequately represented because of socio-economic status in racist courts and as a result continue to be sent to prison and pay unfounded claims. The recent acquittal in the courts of members of the Crusade for Justice illustrates how political prisoners can be freed by the people with the help of a few movement lawyers. The present state of police oppression is such that Chicanos can no longer rely on public defenders or lawyers who are merely representing him as a client without regard to his movement beliefs. A decision ruling such admissions unconstitutional would be a setback in terms of providing these movement lawyers.