Chicano-police hassles spark Friday rally
A march against police harassment will be held Friday in conjunction with several other activities scheduled this week and next around Puerto Rican Solidarity Day. 
Friday’s march, sponsored by UMAS, will begin at 2 p.m. at the UMC Fountain Area and proceed past the dormitories to Folsom, north to Canyon Boulevard and east to Broadway. The march will culminate with a rally at the Municipal Building. 
The demonstration is in protest of the double standard applied to Chicanos and other minorities by the Boulder City Police Department. Recent incidents illustrate the problem, according to march organizers. 
Numerous confrontations between Chicano and white students at Burbank Junior High has caused considerable tension between community members and school administrators.
 On Sept. 25, 14-year-old Roy Valdez was shot while riding his bicycle. Police did not respond to his request for an investigation until Burbank administrators pressured the police to do so one week later. 
During that same week, a city police officer was fired and charged with third degree assault by Boulder County District Attorney Alex Hunter for using “excessive force" in arresting Roy Sandoval, a university student 
Sandoval reportedly was struck in the face and subjected to racial slurs while handcuffed. He suffered numerous lacerations, bruises and a broken jaw. 
A proposal from the Boulder Office of Human Relations sent to the city administration substantiates Chicano complaints against the police.
The proposal, written prior to both the above incidents, called for the establishment of a citizens review board to investigate police brutality charges. That suggestion was rejected by City Manager Archie Twitchell. 
It also requests a full-time community specialist be hired to deal with minority concerns. Neither suggestion has yet been acted upon by the city council. 
The misconception that Chicano-police conflicts are caused by a few political activists and not the result of broader-based community support was criticized in the report.
It stated, “Furthermore, it is also viewed as personally insulting to those community members who feel themselves to be aware of the accumulated injustices that they have suffered.” 
To document the need for a bilingual community specialist, the report cited that: the city employs no full time Chicanos on a permanent basis; mass media reports have “fostered distrust of minorities” as evidenced in unsubstantiated innuendos that Chicano organizations were responsible for the spring bombings; police have over-reacted; and Chicanos “are often singled out as suspects without apparent cause other than their ethnic background.” 
Five separate incidents of police harassment were used as examples in the report, including two cases in which Chicano city employees were placed under police surveillance for no apparent reason. 
Perhaps most indicative of major complaints lodge against the police is that “Chicanos arrested by Boulder police were offered a deal of having the charges dismissed if they would tell the officers who was responsible for the recent bombings. None of the individuals knew any information regarding the bombing incidents."
