World Affairs conferees hear Bilingual—Bicultural speakersAn entire series on bilingual/bicultural education was presented March 11-15 at the 27th Annual Conference on World Affairs at the University. Series X was chaired by various local people concerned about the bilingual/bicultural program: University Professor Anthony Lozano; Pete Garcia, Boulder Valley School board member; Professor Jose DeOnis and State Rep. Ruben Valdez. Speakers came from all over the United States. Oportunidad de Ser Language at the school door: The first session on Monday March 11, began with speakers Dr. Gilbert Sanchez, Dr. Eduardo Hernandez, and Dr. Raymond J. Rodriguez. Sanchez, now Director of bilingual/multicultural Education at the center for Applied Linguistics at Arlington, Virginia, is now developing a resource unit center with specialized skills in the field. Dr. Eduardo Hernandez is a Sociologist at Stanford University. Dr. Raymond J. Rodriguez is from the University of New Mexico at Albuquerque. Dr. Gilbert Sanchez Sanchez spoke first. He emphasized the programs already available and the great number needed. There is a bill in the Senate sponsored by Senators Edward Kennedy and Joseph Montoya which needs public support. He urged that everyone write to his senator asking him to support Bill S-1539. This bill will allocate $2OO million for bilingual education. Sanchez said that there were already 20 states who have acted on or are acting on bilingual program allocations. These programs are not only for the Spanish-speaking, but also French, and Portuguese, among others. He concluded his brief statement with the results of a survey that the government will not release because it would cause embarrassment to the Nixon Administration. It is the study of 35 school districts, all of these districts said that they would take up the costs of training their own teachers for bilingual education. What would cause the Nixon Administration embarrassment is that, in spite of the interest and need of bilingual programs, Sanchez said, less money was allocated for bilingual programs this year than last. Hernandez feels that bilingual programs have “great potential.” He is concerned with the great emphasis of English in bilingual education. He feels that there should be a stronger emphasis on the language spoken at home. He used Spanish as an example. “Spanish is read more easily than English so one can advance faster” reading Spanish, he said. Hernandez said that a problem with the education today is that when a child enters the classroom and can’t speak English, he tries to learn new concepts in a language foreign to him and this causes great pain and trouble. “If a child’s “exposure to English is the proper sort,” he said, “ the child can then learn rapidly and painlessly in a proper atmosphere.” Hernandez finished asking: Will Spanish survive and have the strength it had before? Raymond J. Rodriguez Rodriguez pointed out the faults in Blacks’ and Chicanos’ attempts or approaches in education in the schools. Funding, he feels, is a problem in any educational program. Either the money doesn’t get to where it’s supposed to, or it isn’t used by the right people for the needed items. For example, many of those in charge of proposals don’t ask the teachers and community for an input as to where the money should go Stereotyping was emphasized very strongly as wrong by Rodriguez. He said especially this “stereotyping of Chicanos by Chicanos. Not all Chicanos are alike. Not all Chicanos are bilingual, some are even monolingual English speakers. We have to realize that people are individuals.” The greatest change bilingual/bicultural education could bring about is “to make teachers realize that children are individuals and to have them treated as individuals,” Rodriguez said. Research is the third fault Rodriguez pointed out. Research he said is “error oriented.” He feels that we should look at what’s good, also. El Con Que Where with all: Dr. Albar Pena, “unquestionably one of the authorities on bilingual education”, Director of the division of Bilingual Education at the University of Texas, San Antonio; Eduardo Hernandez, and Christopher Cory, Journalist, addressed the Wednesday, March 13 session. Dr. Albar Pena Dr. Pena aired many misconceptions about Bilingual Education. “Bilingual is not just speaking English as a second language; does not just teach a foreign language, but is used as a media to transmit information. Is not an add-on program to regular curriculum, but is the entire curriculum to replace the present outdated program; and is not a remedial education used to meet the need of those who don’t speak English.” “Failure in bilingual education is because of implementation. Only too often principals OK a bilingual program to pacify the community and won’t give his support to those teachers working with the programs. Bilingual Education needs the support of a well informed community, they have to be brought in in the planning stages.Also, a well-informed Administration willing to lend it’s support when needed is desirable. A school needs to relax outdated policies and implement new ones. A well qualified faculty is also needed who is sensitive and culturally aware. The faculty should also know how to teach concepts in both languages. The right materials that are relevant and adequate are also needed,” Rodriguez said. Financial assistance is always a big stumbling block for educational programs. Rodriguez feels that a school district should first allocate funds, itself, to begin a bilingual program. He said that there is a certain amount of money earmarked for each student and just ten percent of the child’s monies would be enough to implement a bilingual program. Federal and state funding is helpful but school districts shouldn’t sit round and wait for money to be pushed their way for such programs. Eduardo Hernandez Eduardo Hernandez emphasized the need of the support and decision-making of the parents in the community. He feels that the variety of language used for bilingual education should be decided by them. “Many people are convinced that English is the only language which is important, saying good English speakers live in the good homes and have good jobs, and want their kids to speak English,” Hernandez said. He pointed out that there are people who speak good English working alongside those who have poorer jobs and homes and can’t speak English. “Spanish” he said “is a natural resource and no one will miss it until it is gone,” like air and water. Economic problems are not due solely to the language one speaks Hernandez pointed out. “We need to teach that our language is valuable.” Vale! (Work Ability) Dr. Henry Casso, Executive Secretary of the National Education Task Force de la Raza at the University of New Mexico, Albuquerque briefly addressed an audience of approximately 50, Thursday, March 14. Dr. Albar Pena and Dr. Pedro Rodriguez, Director of Chicano studies at the University of Washington in Seattle, also spoke. Dr. Casso said that bilingual education is a “fantastic, magnificent and wholesome contribution to the United States.” The reason to create a language and cultural maintenance model is to create a “whole brown human being aware and able to analyze critically the monster who gobbles us up everyday,” said Dr. Pedro Rodriguez. He concluded by saying; “What is the product? What do we want? How do we go about sure that we wind up with what we want?”