Chico pawn of the man?
It’s fast-paced, foolish, and funny. It's biased, bigoted, and blasphemous. It’s Chico and the Man, network television’s latest assault on the Chicano media image and the minds of the mass audience. Everybody seems to love it. A Chicago television critic praised it for opening “a gold mine of sociocomedy that till now has barely been untapped." A panel of advertising media executives pronounced it a sure-fire hit when they previewed the show last Spring. And television viewers loved the NBC show so much, it received the highest audience rating of any television program the second week it was aired. Yes, everybody is pleased with Chico. Everybody, that is, except the vocal representatives of 15 million Raza living in the United States. They have criticized the show for failing to include Chicanos in responsible production and acting roles and view the character of Chico as a continuation of the bandidos, fall guys, Latin lovers, and other pejorative stereotypes that have characterized portrayals of Raza in movies and television. Double-edged Sword Chico is just another continuation of I Love Lucy's "Ricky Ricardo," the Cisco Kid’s "Pancho," Zorro’s ."Sergeant Garcia," and the Real McCoys’ "Pepino." However, the racism of Chico and the Man cuts deeper into the Raza soul that these portrayals of an earlier era did. It cuts with a double-edged sword into the heart of the issues that Chicanos have raised against commercial media over the past few years. One is discrimination in employment. The program was conceived and developed by five anglos who "combined talents” to produce and write a show about Chicanos. Aside from one Chicano producer, Ray Andrade, who has publicly lamented his lack of involvement in the creative end of the show, and a few other token Chicanos, there are no Chicanos before or behind the cameras. Even Chico is played by a non-Chicano, Freddy Prinze, a comic from the East Coast of Puerto Rican and Hungarian ancestry. The few Chicano actors on the show are merely puppets who are hired, fired, and directed by the non-Chicanos controlling the program. They say the lines, make the movements, enter, exit, and disappear when told. Who’s Laughing The second edge of racism is the premise underlying the “humor” and story-line of the program. The show pits Chico, an unemployed but bright young Chicano, against Ed Brown, a hard drinking, broken-down, bigoted garage owner in East Los Angeles (played by Jack Albertson). The First episode showed Chico begging Brown for a job that would give him his “place in the sun." Brown responded with a string of racist slurs against Chicanos, but Chico finally “won” the battle to labor in the garage, live in Brown’s battered panel truck, and otherwise serve “the man."
It is hard for most Raza to see anything funny about a bright, able-bodied young Chicano humbling himself before a racist Gringo to get a job. The plot runs too close to our own experiences and the title, which translates to “The Boy and the Man," strikes too close to home. Chicano unemployment and underemployment, especially among youths, is no joke. Neither are the Anglo bosses who have long made their Chicano workers the victims of their racial slurs and exploitative labor practices. There is nothing funny about Chicano workers who are underpaid and overworked, who know more about running the business than the boss, and whose hard work maintains the suburban home, new car, and Las Vegas vacation for the boss; while struggling for their own family to survive. Racist Humor The racist humor that spews out of Albertson’s mouth also draws few laughs from Chicanos. We have been the targets of such comments all our lives and see nothing funny in a Gringo employer abusing his exploited servant Programs featuring such characters have their highest regular viewership among prejudiced people. According to researchers, racist comments reinforce, rather than break down racist attitudes in an audience. Research on audience reaction to Archie Bunker’s lovable bigot revealed that the program appeals ‘more to the racially and ethnically prejudiced members of the society,’ concluding that ‘the program is more likely reinforcing prejudice and racism than combating it.’ Thus Chico and the Man is probably reinforcing and stimulating racism and prejudices against Chicanos; nothing to laugh about. The role of Chico is stereotyped to make him and the people he represents more acceptable and less threatening to the Anglo mass audience. Ed Brown’s role is written to provide an outlet for the feelings of the prejudiced people in the audience. The “funny stereotype” of barrios and bigotry is based on a formula that has drawn large audiences on other shows, principally All in the Family and Sanford and Son. But the Chico and the Man bigotry even outdoes these shows. Chico’s anglo bigot is similar to the portrayal of Archie Bunker, but Archie’s bigotry is directed at all groups; Ed Brown’s is directed only at La Raza. In Sanford and Son there are no White bosses. All the principal characters are Black. Also stereotyping of ghetto Blacks is partially offset by portrayals of Blacks in other roles (teachers, athletes, secretaries, doctors, etc.) in other television programs. Only Chico There are no other alternative roles for young Chicanos to identify with. We and our children have only Chico. In Los Angeles, Chicano activists are calling for removal of the show and are going to challenge the network’s local affiliate's license to operate a television station. Colorado Raza should support these activities and organize opposition to the local stations carrying the program. No one can deny that Freddie Prinze is a cute actor. Nor can it be denied that Chico and the Man has its funny moments. But making poverty, subservience, exploitation, and racism subject for prime time humor in Anglo America doesn't help the people who live with these conditions every waking hour of their lives. Nor does it provide the non-Chicano audience with a proper understanding of the reality of Chicano life in this country. Many have yet to see what we are really like or what our humor is really like. They won’t until Chico and the Man is forced off the air. 
