UFW leader in Denver
Chavez says ‘chale' to la migra
The United Farm Workers of America (UFWA) has publically taken a position concerning immigrants without papers from Mexico that called for amnesty for border violations. Cesar Chavez outlined that position when he spoke to about 800 people July 13 in Denver. Chavez is the UFWA's founder and president. Immigrants from Mexico “are being used as instruments against" the farm worker movement. Chavez said. Single men are freely allowed to cross the border to break strikes only to be exploited b> the growers and then shipped back to Mexico by the border patrol. Because they are used as scab labor and because they cannot strike for fear of being deported, a tense situation has developed between the immigrants without papers and union workers. Chavez said he feels Mexican immigrants should be allowed the privilege to settle in the United States with their families just as immigrants from other countries. However, he added. "If my mother were brought in to break a strike. I would have to be against her.** Why Boycott? That’s how “intense” agricultural strikes have been. Chavez said. Illustrating that point well was a film. Why We Boycott, that was screened during Chavez* visit. The film explicitly showed the confrontations that made headlines across the country during last summer's grape strike, a strike that Chavez teamed “the bloodiest in labor history. It was also one of history’s most significant strikes. Prior to last year, most of California grape
fields were under UFWA contracts. Those contracts were the result of five years of striking, organizing and boycotting. In 1970, those contracts were signed and for three years, "the workers liked their union, they controlled it. fought for it, and are still fighting for it,” Chavez said. But they expired last year and when the workers came to work, they found that growers and Teamsters had signed contracts without consulting the workers sweetheart contracts. Teamster Violence “And the workers told them Teamsters to go to hell,” Chavez said. By the end of the summer, 30,000 workers were on strike, 4000 had been arrested and 44 had been shot. Two UFWA members were killed one was beaten to death by Kearn County Sheriff’s officers and the other was shot through the heart by a strikebreaker. Blood’s still all over those fields.” Chavez said. The film showed the infamous Teamster goon squads. Paid 567 a day. they were hired professionals brought in to harrass the strikers. One scene shows hundreds of workers quietly picketing a field while jeering teamsters eat grapes on the other side of the fence. Kearn County Sheriff’s officers stand between the two groups not protecting the workers, but facing them. Another shows an American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees international representative with blood spurting from his sides as police continue to club him. Footage from the funeral for one of the dead men closes the film. The narrator says, "That is
why we boycott.” Boycott efforts renewed The summer ended and the UFWA was left with a depleted strike fund and few contracts. In September, the union called for renewed grape and wine boycott and again, it is depending on that tactic for strength. Denver UFWA spokespersons said there is some strike activity now in progress. A strawberry strike against one company that ended with a UFWA contract, has spread throughout the Oxnard, Calif, area and is 80 per cent effective, they said. Imperial Valley melon workers are also on strike, but have been hampered by court injunctions which have resulted in police brutality and several arrests. Consumer Support But with no money to pay striking workers, the Union is not planning any major strikes and is depending on consumers to boycott non-UFWA head lettuce, table grapes and wines. The wines being boycotted are Gallo. Boones Farm. Spanada, Ripple, Paisano, Franzia and Guild. One spokesman said to be sure and check labels closely because Gallo will be introducing 15 new wines to the market that will not have their name. If the label says Modesto, Calif, anyplace, it is a Gallo wine and should be boycotted. Boycott efforts have been going well, he said, pointing out that the Wall Street Journal reported Gallo wine sales down 15 per cent.
Cesar Chavez. President of the United Farm Workers of America, visited Denver Saturday. June 13. During the day. Chavez met with local labor and movement leaders seeking and renewing endorsements of his Unions strikes in the grape and lettuce fields. His Union is still boycotting grapes, lettuce and wines, mostly those wines bottled in Modesto. California, or by Gallo Wineries.

