Antonio Alcantar fund-raising dinner August 4
Antonio Alcantar. 23, the lone survivor of one of two fatal car bombings last May remains hospitalized at the Veterans Administrative Hospital in Denver. Alcantar remains in serious but improving condition. Early in June one of his legs was amputated, and doctors feel he may lose an arm as well. There is some concern that Alcantar is not receiving adequate treatment at the V.A. Hospital, therefore plans are being made to transfer Alcantar to a hospital in San Antonio. Rumors that federal charges may be filed against Alcantar have not yet been confirmed. When contacted, the U.S. District Attorney refused comment. Friends of Alcantar, Amigos de la Familia Alcantar, have launched a full-fledged state-wide fund raising campaign for the needy family. The date, nearly
$1000 has been raised. Local merchants have generously given food and other merchandise for raffles. Danny Valles, of Amigos de la Familia Alcantar feels that "people are responding well to the pleas for help, and are taking it upon themselves to organize fund raising projects." A fund raising Mexican dinner for Alcantar is scheduled on August 4, at the First Christian Church, 950 28th St. in Boulder. It will begin at 5:00 p.m. Scheduled to perform are. El teatro de Ustedes, El Ballet de Boulder, La Familia Domingues, and several local musicians. Admission is $3.00 for adults and $1.50 for children under 12. All are urged to attend. Persons interested in helping with fund raising drives are asked to contact the MAP and UMAS offices at TB-I
The Boulder Police Department's investigation of the bombings is completed, according to Det. Capt. Kelly Gaskill. Gaskill claims the Boulder police department is still awaiting a final report from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, before any information can be released to the Public. Elements of the Chicano community claim this is a mere pretext of the Boulder police to enable them to withhold information that would discredit their (police) speculation that the seven bombing victims were assembling bombs when they accidentally detonated. A more credible theory of the Chicano community is that the bombs were planted in the cars of the victims by some unknown third party conspirators.

