Cartas - cartas - cartas
ITT bombing
With all the greed in our nation today for money and power, it comes as no surprise to find large corporations taking part in the actual over throw of governments of other countries and robbing the people of their freedom for their own selfish interests. It comes as little surprise to find that the CIA spent over I 1 million in an attempt to prevent Salvador Allende from gaining the presidency in Chile and later to have him removed from office. It is sad however that many times, because of negligence and unkept promises on the part of our officials, the people must do the job the officials should be doing and deal with the problem. Of interest is when a corporation moves against a countrv.
Hundreds of lives are taken for their own selfish gain. On the other hand, when the people move against a corporation, the only damage is material and always in the interest of the people. An organization calling itself “New World Liberation Front" has claimed responsibility for four bombings and is believed responsible for a fifth in California in the last two months. Targets include ITT owned hotels. NWLF says ITT must answer for taking part in creating a reign of terror in Chile. The Front stated that it will continue to punish the oppressor, ITT, until the publicly admit their guilt and do everything in their power to set the many political prisoners in Chile free. In Denver, another assault against ITT ripped apart a warehouse owned by the corporation. The blast occurred at 11:20 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 9. The warehouse, a wholesale pipefitting firm, is located at 2175 15 th St. A local organization calling itself the CRA, Continental Revolutionary Army, has claimed credit for the bombing. A note found on the door of KBTV-Channel 9 signed by the CRA read: “This is another punishment for the suffering which ITT has put upon the people of Chile and the world." A similar note is said to have been found near a Public Service Co. of Colo, substation in Adams County after it was bombed last March 8, signed by the CRA. Someday the large corporations that continue to oppress, enslave and corrupt the people of the world will learn that being selfish and acting like pigs can only serve to destroy them and hurt the innocent people around them. Someday the corporations will realize the good they could do for the world by providing instead of ripping off. Someday they will have the ability to comprehend the potential and beauty of a world of people striving together in the in-
terest of everyone. Not today. Today they have to be pushed in the right direction. This is becoming more and more evident in many parts of the world. Today it’s up to the people to make the corporations understand that their games have to stop. The attitudes of corporations have made the people tired and impatient. The people are no longer sitting back, thiy’re taking stands, strong stands. The corporations are uneasy because the people they have to deal with are real. They’re dedicated people with definite goals and very definite morals. The corporations have stopped laughing.
