Teatro Campesino touring Colorado-El Teatro CampesinoÒLa Carpa de los Rasquachis" a play written by Luis Valdez and performed by El Teatro Campesino is touring Colorado. No one within a hundred miles of a performance should miss it it's a must! One observer summed it up when he said. ÒThat teatro was everything Chicano studies tries to teach in a year all wrapped up into 90 minutes.Ó In "La Carpa de los Rasquachis" Luis Valdez has traced the evolution/revolution of the Aztecas, Espa–oles, Mestizos Mexicanos and Chicanos from the past; through the present; and into the future. El Teatro Campesino combines the arts of dance, music, gymnastics, comedy, and tragedy into a polished presentation which is riveled by no other medium. The teatro deals with nearly every imaginable aspect of Chicanismo. It threads its way throughout the history of the Aztecas and the landing of Cortez to the fields and streets of the United States. From the Marine Corps to the police department; front the barrio to the university; from submission to resistance; los Rasquachis experience it all. El Teatro Campesino grew out of the farmworker struggle in California but has since grown to a movement in its own right. Last summer, theater performers from many countries including England. France, and Japan traveled to San Juan Bautista in Calitas to study with the teatro. There they worked, lived, ate and slept side-by-side. The hours of strenuous exercise; the repetitious practice; the exchange of ideas are evident in every performance. The teatro that is the impromptu theater has grown into an art form recognized worldwide. Chicanos everywhere can take great pride in all teatros because they are performing the plays which never would have been performed by any other group. They are telling the story which may have never been told they are the voice of all Chicanos. The following lines are from the play: You are me and I am you If I love and respect you. I love and respect myself If I do harm to you. I do harm to myself You are my other me. EI Teatro Campesino may be coming to your town be sure to see I them. Friday, April 19. they will be in Alamosa at Plachy Hall (Gym). R Adams State College at 7 p.m. At press time we have been told they will B be in Colorado Springs and Pueblo but we do not know where or when.la muerteÒKill or be killed . . . push or be pushed .. . you just killed your first Chicano"Quetzacoatl bears his cross as he banishes himself from his "Yo soy Chicano!" people.Rasquachi sees vision of Lady of Guadalupe as he beats his friend in a drunken rage.