Board rescinds Garcia probation
by Kathy Kanda
El Diario staff With promises to apologize and improve relations with Chicano communities, the Boulder County Mental Health Center Executive Board agreed to rescind probation on out-reach worker Pete Garcia Oct. 9. About 50 Chicanos from •throughout the Denver - Boulder area came to the board’s meeting to support Garcia’s fight against probation. However, the board meeting was closed and the people had to wait outside. Garcia had been placed on probation the previous week and presented with a list of charges against his job performance as director of the center’s Lafayette extension office. Garcia has been very active as a member of the Boulder Valley School Board in the fight for Chicano educational equality. He has given special attention to the need for a bilingual education program in Boulder Valley Schools. Incompetence charged Health Center Board members charged that Garcia was rejecting supervision; a bad therapist and incompetent; responsible for two
Chicano workers leaving their jobs; and, destroying the Lafayette center. Co-workers countered that Garcia had not been offered any help or supervision in setting up the office until after he was placed on probation. They said he was not incompetent and that he had been hired as an out-reach worker, not a therapist. Left for other reasons The two Chicanos who quit work with the Lafayette office, left for other reasons. One said he quit because he could not work under the Mental Health Center administration not because he had difficulties with Garcia. Community members said they were angered by the Mental Health Center’s attitude that the Lafayette office was not working well. Though Garcia has worked in the area for several years, the office was established only two months ago, they said. Tom Maes in support of Garcia criticized the board. “For a one man team, Pete has done a hell of a job,” Maes said. He also said he felt the executive board was trying to make all Chicanos appear inefficient by attacking Garcia.
Chicano Task Force The Lafayette Chicano Task Force came to the meeting and was a primary source of support for Garcia. Task Force member Benito De La Torre said, “Pete is not the issue. They are trying to get the whole task force.” In speaking to the Chicanos after the closed meeting, the Mental Health Center’s acting director Ed VaNatta repeatedly said he felt Garcia, perhaps, was “set-up for failure" by the established structure of the center. He admitted that Garcia had not received as much help as the extension workers in Longmont and errors of judgment were made in placing him on probation. But several people argued they did not see Garcia as a “failure" and said they were offended by VaNatta’s comments. “The community feels the center is a success. And when the Mental Health Center says it thinks it’s a failure, it is damaging to the community,” said one woman. VaNatta agreed that different standards will have to be established in assessing the mental health needs of Chicano communities, though there was some dispute about what process should be implemented.
