Black G.l. foils foils military policeOn December 11. 1973. Charlie Beamon, a Black Gl assigned to the Ent Air Force Base at Colorado Springs. Colorado, was driving near Peterson Field when he was stopped by four white security policemen and told to 'get out of that car.” They gave no reason, so he refused. One of the cops then yelled. "Nigger, get out of the goddamn car," and yanked him out. He was then surrounded and searched.Two of Beamon's friends arrived and demanded to know why Beamon was being stopped. The cops said that Beamon had given the finger to someone outside a building he had just left, and said they were going to take Beamon in. With that statement an argument started. Being angry and upset by the racist remarks and harassment, Beamon slugged one cop. Immediately three cops ganged up on him and threw him to the ground while beating him. Beamon was then thrown in the car, where he heard a women security cop give her rationale for the beating of Beamon: “Blacks don't belong in the Air Force anyway. They don't know how to act in a decent society." As Beamon entered the security building at Ent Air Force base, a white Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) demanded to see his I D. When Beamon didn't respond, the NCO grabbed his pants and tried to pull out his wallet. Beamon grabbed the NCO's arm and two NCO's then began beating him again. Beamon had to file a complaint before the base hospital would treat his wounds.Beamon decided not to let the issue rest, an filed a multi-charge complaint against the arresting cops and the officers. However, the Air Force command personnel responded by moving for a court-martial for Beamon on several trumped-up charges. Other Gl’s refused to let this travesty go unprotested, and organized a defense committee for Beamon. As the committee became organized and began leafletting the surrounding community. the Air Force brass grew wary of the publicity and cognizant of what might happen, and a change in sentiment occurred. All charges against Beamon were dropped, and he is a free man now.