Crusade says ‘third party' to blame in bombings
In regard to the recent bombings which have resulted in the deaths of five of our People, we want to respond as an Organization and as a People to the illegal tactics, the cloak-and-dagger methods of the military forces of Boulder, Denver, and Colorado; and also to the lack of human compassion in the inhumane handling of information about the deceased to their relatives and loved ones; and finally to the irresponsible journalism that has prevailed throughout these days of tragedy. It is our belief that the military apparatus deployed by the U.S. Government in the .control of colonized countries across the third world is being put into practice here at home, at the expense of those people who struggle for social justice, commonly known as "activists". By utilizing state, local and federal police agencies to stomp out and wipe out any resistance to the status quo or the "establishment" is the exact replica of the military apparatus that represses and controls other countries, i.e. The U.S. Army, The Police Department, The C.1.A., the C. 8.1., the F. 8.1., The Secret Service, Right Wing Reactionaries, Civilian Aid & Information, Vigilantes, A.I.D. and L.E.A.A. Because we understand the magnitude of the situation, we have reason to suspect conspiracy in the deaths of Reyes Martinez, Neva Romero, Una Jaakola, Florencio Granado, Heriberto Teran, and another unidentified person, as well as the critical injuries of Antonio Alcantar. The odds of coincidence of the same occurrence within 48 hours is inconceivable. The percentages of six people and one critically injured in two separate instances, in that span of time, in the same city, would be astronomical. The fact that the victims who are speechless and defenseless forever are the ones who are further victimized while their homes are searched by way of illegal search warrants. Are the dead the guilty parties?
We further question why the Boulder Police Department has been so secretive in their releases of information and about their investigative procedures? The families of the deceased should have access to all the information and evidence in regard to their loved ones. Finally the press, by insinuations and imaginary journalism has maligned not only the dead but the living. Although it is stated over and over again that no one saw the immediate explosion in the first case, we quote from the mouths of Radio Hams and newspaper clippings, "It was assumed that they were assembling a bomb". Who is assuming? We say the press is the speculator, with an eye toward indicting the dead. The Denver Post states, "After the explosion, where early reports indicated that material from the Denver Crusade for Justice was found in the vehicle, (coma) Chicano activists in the Boulder area said they fear that they will be targets for other explosions. We demand to know what the material was and we accuse the Denver Post of a malicious, vile attempt to confuse the public and plant seeds of distrust in our people. It is not hard to understand that when we support the Law Students, the media does not mention our Organization, when we support the medical students, the prisoners, the struggling union groups, youth, the poor and the dispossessed, upon we attack racism, discrimination. irrelevant education, unfair
welfare issues, the newspapers fail to mention us. We are well aware of yellow journalism and its effects and we want those people of the media who are a disgrace to honest journalism to know that we cannot and will not be broken We will not be shamed or frightened away from claiming our Brothers and Sisters who we have recently lost. While they lived they contributed to the cause of their people. They gave of themselves possibly more than anyone of us will ever know. They gave proof of their solidarity with the causes and the people they believed in and we offer the same to them. In ending I would like to say that this letter I received yesterday, was mailed no doubt after the Monday bombing and referred to the Monday evening bombing, is proof that other people are involved either in alliance or conspiracy with the murder of our People. We have reason to suspect that we are dealing with highly skilled killers, who have access to the most technical and sophisticated resources and materials. Their methods have been used in Viet Nam, the Dominican Republic, Cambodia, Africa, Asia, Chile, and across South America We intend to survive no matter what the odds against us are. We will continue with our work and encourage our people to continue the struggle for liberation despite coercion, threats, or death. Crusade For Justice Denver, Colorado, Aztlan

