Martinez family speaks out
Brothers victimized by press
The Comfte Para Defender Los Derechos Humanos y Civiles de la Familia Martinez was founded for the express purpose of protecting the family of Reyes P. and Francisco Martinez from being further victimized, harassed, and subjected to cruel and insensitive accusations by the news media and law enforcement agencies. First of all, the Familia Martinez would like to express its condolences to the familias of the other two persons who lost their lives with Reyes P. Martinez. Once again the Familia Martinez finds itself in the position of being forced to come forth in defense of their son after the press and other prematurely convicted Reyes of criminal actions. The tragic events of May 27, 1974. leading to the death of Reyes and two other persons may never be known to any of us. despite reports to the contrary. Thus the Chicano Community is vitally concerned with the oppression which the Family of Francisco and Reyes Martinez has been subjected to in the form of yellow journalism. The most recent incident being the reporting of the recent bombing deaths in Boulder, Colorado, on May 27. 1974. Indicative of the insensitive attitude of the press and police authorities is the fact that the family of Reyes Martinez, was only very recently officially notified of Reyes’ death notwithstanding that the press for almost a week now has repeatedly engaged in irresponsible speculation as to who the victims - are and how the deaths occurred.
Trial by Press The press has victimized Reyes and Francisco Martinez and has characterized these attorneys as common criminals by outright accusations and innuendos wholly unsupported by any real or even circumstantial evidence linking Reyes with the many reported bombing incidents. Indeed, the media has managed to convict Reyes via "Trial By Press” by putting forth their pre-fabricated theories that Reyes was in the process of constructing a bomb in the car when it exploded. It is manifestly obvious that the press has completely excluded all other explanations for the tragic event of May 27, 1974. It must be noted that it is highly probable that Reyes and the other victims were murdered by a horrible fascist act intended to "flush” his brother Francisco out from underground. The Martinez family has expressed concern that justice and fundamental fairness requires that all other theories be explored something which the news media and law enforcement officials have clearly declined to do. It is an uncontroverted fact that the number of Chicano attorneys is grossly disproportionate to the citizenry of that ethnic background. Thus it is entirely possible, indeed probable, that there exists a conspiracy to keep to a handful the number of Chicano attorneys who have committed their lives to combat the injustice so rampant in this so-called democracy where all citizens are ostensibly equal under the law irrespective of their race, color, or creed. It is common knowledge that Reyes and his entire family have been subjected to incessant harassment by federal and state policy authorities. Victims of Conspiracy We must point out that Reyes refused to succumb to all this harassment and pressure inflicted upon him by the police authorities —a fact well known to the police authorities. Hence, it is entirely probable that the police authorities realizing the futility of their harassment tactics, decided to resort to the gestapo tactics which the infamous “watergate affair.” has revealed. The belief that Reyes Martinez and the other two persons in the car were victims of a conspiracy to bring his brother out in the open and the same time eliminate the amount of Chicano attorneys is not unfounded. It should be remembered that when Reyes Martinez presented himself for admission to the Bar of the State of Colorado, Aztlan. he stated "Aqui solamente por Aztlan”. His death and that of the other two persons in the car shall not have been in vain. Moreover, the recent deaths of three more Chicano carnales on May 29. 1974. evidence a cruel inhumane plot aimed at destroying all Chicanos in Colorado who have been active in combating the injustices which arc daily perpetrated on the Chicano community of Colorado. Comite Para Protejer Los Derechos Humanos Y Civilies De La Familia Martinez

