The name of the game
Remember a decade ago when the song “Name Game" was popular? It was one of those rhythmic clap-your-hands tunes that stuck in your mind as you found yourself singing it for no apparent reason. Well the “Name Game" is back with a new twist and Chicanos all over campus are playing it The new variation comes from the ever popular children’s game “Button, button, who’s got the button." To play the game, you simply need to think of a new name for UMAS-EOP. In fact you can play the game with the old name, that’s how easy it is. The trick is to come up with a name and kick it around campus for a while. The object is to busy yourself picking and kicking the name until nothing else seems important Before you know it Chicanos are pickin', kickin’ and a grinnin’ for no apparent reason. Meanwhile, the important issues remain unattended! The game's origin goes back to more than a year ago when a group of activists began talking about changing the name of UMAS-EOP because it had lost much of its original meaning. When UMAS started, it was a revolutionary change in the ivory tower education system. For the first time Mexican Americans were entering the university in noticable numbers. In the five years since, many changes have come about Mexican Americans have come to prefer to be called “Chicanos.” The word is not a new one. It is a name brought from Mexico and it is a name we call ourselves rather than a name given to us by the White colonializers. What’s in a name? When the students in Boulder originally chose UMAS as their name, students across the Southwest followed the example. UMAS at Boulder became a leader who set the pace. Although many organizations adopted the name, few kept the pace. It is because of this leadership role that UMAS must again be the vanguard. We must break ourselves away from the term “Mexican American” and away from that mentality. If we are Chicanos, then let our name reflect it and let our actions speak for themselves. This semester the "Name Game” has reached new heights. When the name change was first proposed to the student body, there were no objections. When it was proposed to the EOP staff, there were objections, but they were worked out When it was proposed to the university administration, there were no objections. But now that the students, the staff and the university have agreed, the objections have surfaced. The name in contest is Chicano Education Program de Aztlan (CEPA). Some don’t like this name. Some don’t like the way it was introduced. Some don’t want to change the old name. What’s in a name? The name change issue is not important enough for us to divide into different camps. It is not important enough to occupy the countless elections, petitions and surveys. If CEPA is an unacceptable name, then let the students and staff change it If UMAS is too sacred a name to change, then let it be. If there is a better name, then adopt it But don’t let the issue of a name prevent us from carrying on the unfinished work left by those who made UMAS known across Aztlan. We look forward to the day when the Chicano students at the university again begin to deal with issues such as Chicano Studies, the farmworkers, lack of sufficient financial aid and creating change. Enough of this divisive pickin’, kickin’ and a grinnin'!
