Neva's father
Unanswered questions in car bombing posed
Joseph Romero is not satisfied with the investigation of the Boulder car bombings and has sent a letter labeling the inquiry as “amateur, mediocre, senseless and irresponsible.” He has reason to be concerned, his daughter Neva was one of the seven victims of the May bombings. In an emotionally charged letter which has appeared in several area newspapers, Romero charges his daughter and ‘her beloved friends, Una Jaakola and Reyes Martinez, were victims of a very well organized crime syndicate whose primary objective is to eliminate any kind of reform that is consistent with aspirations of Freedom and pursuit of happiness for al I people.” The other victims of the bombings were Florencio Granado,
Heribierto Teran, and Francisco Dougherty, all of whom were killed instantly. Antonio Alcantar, the one survivor has lost a leg and partial use of his left arm. Romero’s letter is highly critical of the Boulder County Coroner's Office, the Boulder City Police and the University Police. He states these public officials “have lost all ethics" that go with the judicial process in this Country. “They have no qualms about disseminating information that is biased and resembles what is called a Police State. They are much less concerned about the intimate feelings of the immediate families and friends,” he said. The letter also raises many questions based on Romero's own investigation:
“Having 4he lady, her daughter, uncle, and aunt that witnessed a man assembling what looked like a bomb on a first aid kit, with roll of tape in the front seat of the VW in exactly the same spot and same day where Reyes' car blew up, ever been subpoenaed to answer questions to the Federal Grand Jury? Why didn't the Boulder Police answer to two calls made by this lady?" Capt. Kelly Gaskill of the Boulder Police said he had no knowledge of the man or the VW. He also said to his knowledge no calls were received from a lady offering information. He also said he knew nothing about a girl with a black dog who was keeping surveillance for the man, also mentioned in Romero’s letter. Romero asked why the lady
who permitted Lt Evans of the University Police to enter Neva’s apartment without a warrant, had not been called to answer questions. Gaskill said Lt. Evans had a warrant signed by a local judge. Lt. Evans was unavailable for comment. “ Members of the Boulder Police, the University Police and the Coroner's office are not above reproach," Romero said. “Why haven’t they been subpoenaed to answer questions of police brutality, of making biased statements, and ignoring the pleadings of poor helpless people in distress?" Gaskill said Romero had suffered a terrible loss, but he said he hopes he is not speaking out of bitterness. He said the grand jury was a secretive process and he
was as curious as anyone else about what they know. Since five agencies participated in the investigation, Gaskill said the grand jury probably has any information he might have. He confirmed that his department's investigation is closed, but was sure the investigation would be opened up immediately should new information become available. The grand jury’s investigation is continuing and Chicano activist Ray Otero has been subpoenaed to testify this month. (See related story). Investigators for the Federal Agency of the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division have been on campus visiting various Chicano organizations as recently as mid-September it was reported.

