Support MAP During the late 1960’s Cesar Chaves and the United Farm Workers Union brought the plight of America s migrant workers to the attention of the American public. Since then special programs aimed at correcting some of the injustices to farm workers have cropped up across the nation. At this University the Migrant Action Program (MAP) is aimed at meeting the educational needs of Colorado’s migratory workers. It is the only one of its kind in the nation, but because of its uniqueness it has special problems. Since many of the students in the MAP program are former migrant workers, they have difficulty meeting the University s residency requirements. Also, because farmworkers are of a variety of ethnic backgrounds, they do not fall into the same category as Chicano, Black, Asian, or Indian Educational Opportunity Programs. Many potential students have been hampered by the states residency clause. Colorado farmworkers are classified in two groups, the seasonal farmworkers and the migratory farmworker. The seasonal farmworker lives in the state and works in the fields 3 to 9 months out of the year. The migrant farmworker comes into Colorado tor a period of 3 to 11 months. (CMC Statistical Data). Although he stays in the state for this period of time, the migrant cannot be classified as a resident. Yet he’s not a resident of the state he may have come from. The migrant farmworker is excluded from taking advantage of the benefits that other people take for granted. The farmworker subsidies the state of Colorado with $ 82,000,Q00 worth of farm products yearly. (CMC Stats). This of course comes about as a result of their labor, yet he is unable to take advantage of the Migrant Action Program. „ The plight of the farmworker is the same regardless of ethnic background. For these reasons the Migrant Action Program is recruiting with an emphasis on the farmworker in the rural areas of Colorado regardless of ethnic group. For further information contact the Migrant Action Program at TB 1 on the C.U. campus,