Court ok’s recall. DENVER. The Colorado Supreme Court has ruled that signers of the petition to recall City Councilman Eugene DiManna do not have to be registered voters. The court's decision boosts the number of valid signatures to 3,521 well above the 2,111 needed to call for a recall election. Organizers of the recall drive do not expect the city's election Commission to call for elections at least not right away. Florencio Granado, a spokesman for the group, told El Diario, “we think they are going to hit us with something else.” Although they are pessimistic, the community leaders say they will continue to do whatever necessary to remove DiManna from the office “he is holding illegally.” The group's lack of faith in the political process is not unfounded. Since the recall effort was initiated nearly two years ago. DiManna has used the City machinery and legal stall tactics to sidestep the move. On Oct. 4, 1972, the group presented more than 4,000 signatures of which the election commission ruled only 1,912 valid. On Nov. 6, 1972 the petitioners withdrew their petitions and obtained about 900 more. In December of that year, the commission ruled that the amended petitions contained only 2,079 valid signatures only 32 short of the needed 2,111. Granado said that DiManna has continued to represent his own interests and ignored the interests of the community in his district which is largely Chicano. The interest in recalling DiManna is as high as it was when the drive started, Granado said. The petitioners feel that the court's most recent decision will serve to help other recall efforts started after their own, rather than help the DiManna recall. (Since the unprecedented recall effort. Colorado citizens have initiated numerous recall efforts based on the decisions made in the DiManna case.) “When we started." Granado said, "the main objective was to recall DiManna. But the drive has served as an educational tool for the community, also.” He said that people were realizing their political power and were opposing the system which before they felt was unbeatable. Whatever the outcome of the recall effort, DiManna is up for re-election in 1975.