TenureThe UMAS General Assembly voted by an overwhelming majority Wednesday night Feb. 27th to support Salvador Ramirez in his bid for tenure. In a heated discussion presented to the students both in favor and against the teachings and position of Salvadore Ramirez, it was decided to adopt a resolution to support Ramirez for tenure but not his position as head of the Chicano Studies Dept. The resolution states that because Salvador Ramirez was instrumental in creating a Chicano Studies department, and because he has initiated the hiring of other Chicano professors, he should be supported for tenure. Mike Carreras, UMAS Chairman, said that there are very few Chicano professors who can teach Chicano studies or are qualified to communicate the way Sal does. He also said that it is doubtful that Sal can be replaced and for this reason should be supported by all students. Ramirez was denied tenure by the Board of Regents last summer. He has since appealed his denial and is currently the subject of review by Professor Albert Ramirez. Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Chicano Education. Albert Ramirez said that before a sub-committee can be formed to look at the questions of Sal’s tenure a few other questions have to be answered by William Briggs. Dean of the College of Arts & Sciences. Those questions are: Can Salvador Ramirez be given tenure not within the Chicano studies structure? Was the appointment of Salvador Ramirez administrative or academic? He also said that the sub-committee would be made-up of tenured professors and evaluate his teaching ability and what Sal has written. Professor George Rivera of the sociology dept, said "Sal has talents but does not belong in a teaching position, people are abject to his teaching, we need strong people for Chicano studies.” He said that tenure was an academic appointment dependent upon credentials with few exceptions, but people who are well-known like Professor Kenneth Boulding of the Economics Dept, have achieved tenure without a degree. The people who are involved in the issue of tenure for Salvador Ramirez, according to Professor Howard Higman of the Sociology Dept., are “very divided". Professor Higman said that the vote taken by the Sociology professors and the credentials that a person resents contribute to the decision, but are "not decisive” in granting tenure. He pointed out that there are a great many professors within the College of A&S who do not have PhD’s.