Audit an attack in disguiseThe auditing of ASUC funding of student organization was designed to discredit and disrupt Chicanos and their organizations. The audit was not brought about because of the fear the university had that the ASUC was misusing student funds, but rather as a result of Peter Solomon's racist attitude toward Chicanos and the ASUC Tri-executives. Solomon has had a grudge against the Tri-executives because of their liberal-radical views. He has also shown a racist attitude towards Chicanos and other minorities. He was quoted as saying “If you think I'm doing this because I don’t like those people, you are right" The audit is not only racist and discriminatory but it is also a politically motivated move against minorities. The audit draws conclusions and does not provide adequate facts to support its findings. The implications of the audit were that Chicano oriented expenditures were examined with some kind of priority over other ASUC spendings. The university is never willing to talk about the improvement of financial aid to minorities and are just as unwilling to meet with Chicanos concerning parity. But are willing to send hundreds of dollars on an audit so that they will have an excuse to cut off minority aid through the ASUC. Solomon, who made the allegation that ASUC was misusing student funds, makes no mention of the fact that he was fired from his job at the recreation department because of an illegal hiring practice on the part of the recreation department We as Chicanos have little to fear from people like Peter Solomon who expose themselves as racist bigots and bootlickers in the eyes of the public. The ones we must watch out for are those who pretend to be conservative-minded Americans. When asked about what his response was to the audit ASUC triexec. Jess Vigil said “to react to the audit would be to play into the hands of the administrations.” He also went on to say that “if supporting workers who are fighting union busting tactics and oppression is criminal, then ASUC is guilty, and as long as I am able to I will support these struggles."