A letter from Kiko Martinez, a Chicano soldado in exile
Editor's Note: It has only been a year since Franke "Kiko" Martinez was forced underground by charges he had sent dynamite bombs to Denverites. In that time, he has become a cult hero to many in the Chicano movement; his brother Reyes was killed in the Boulder car bombings (in what some people believe was an attempt to flush Kiko out); and he has been granted political asylum in Cuba. Kiko has been subjected to some oj the most racist character assassinations in Denver's yellow press since Baltizor Martinez was wrongfully accused of bombing Denver Public School buses. On Nov. 2, of this year, the eyes of the state, the nation and of the world turned to Grand Junction, Colorado where President Gerald Ford crowned a homecoming queen. The same day, 30 Chicanos marched through Grand Junction in support of Kiko before the cameras of every federal, state and local agent in town photographing the demonstration. Following the march, local Chicanos gathered at La Voz de la Raza headquarters where a press conference was held in conjunction with a state-wide conference entitled, "Conferencia tie accion." Speakers at the conference voiced strong support for Kiko and denounced the "many movement leaders who charge too much to come and speak to the people." They are putting windows in their buildings while our people need information, Ray Otero said. Kiko is an exception. He can't come to speak to us, but he did the next best thing, one speaker said, "He sent us a tape." The following is a transcript of the tape. Kiko's sister. Rita, verified Kiko's voice on the tape which was destroyed at the end of the conference.

Hace algo tiempo que no nos comunicamos y tanto tiempo que no nos vemos cara a cara. A hoy tenemos la oportunidad de otra vez comunicamos y. en un sentido, hablar y discutir para niejor prepararnos para resolver nuestra problemas. Durante las ultimas nueve mesas estabamos mas o menos incomunicado porque no sabiamos como niejor seguir con nuestra lucha personalmente para niejorar y desarrollar la lucha por justicia. por libertad. por una independence la soberania de nuestro pueblo, el pueblo Chicano. Ahora si. como siempre. cl tiempo es justiciero > vengador. Ahora si tenemos algo, algo concrete en que presentarle al pueblo, aunque lo que vamos a decir no va solucionar para siempre las problemas que tenemos \ derrotar las sistema centre cual luchamos. Durante el cspacio de tiempo que estamos ausentes de nuestro pueblo, fisicamcntc. aunque no. en nuestra monies, han sucedido tambien otros aeontecimientos. (turn to page 3) 


