They’re fighting for their human rights“What are you fighting for?” We’ve heard this question countless times as we have picketed the Safeway stores. We’re fighting for the human rights of the farmworkers. Is it right to let people die of hunger? Is it right to let people die of continued exposure to pesticides? Is it right to have someone tell you what is right for you when they have never experienced your way of life? Is it right to not have a choice in the direction of your life? We are fighting for the right to live. For many years the farmworkers have worked for the growers at only the growers convenience and terms. This has left farmworkers living in indecent housing many of which are chicken coops when not occupied by the farmworkers, and accepting inhuman treatment while in the fields. We boycott lettuce to support the United Farm Workers of America, led by Cesar Chavez. The boycott is the only weapon the Union has to force the growers to improve the life of the migrants. The issue behind the lettuce boycott is not freedom of choice but the decision to oppress or not to oppress. We are dealing with multi-millionaire organizations, the only way to hurt them is in the pocketbook. When lettuce is not bought by a University it shows the solidarity of this fight and it hurts the growers. As all good businessmen know “always do what increases your profit.” Only if signing with the UFWA increases the growers’ net profit, they will do that. Consumer: “I’ve heard that the farmworkers like working in the fields in their present condition.” If one does not have an education, a talent or cannot express himself he has a hard time letting people know of his misery. Do you think we like to do what we are forced to do? Consumer: Why can 7 you just go out and get a job in a factory or a store somewhere? One cannot go out and get a job when one doesn’t have an education. The average farmworker has the equivalent of a fourth grade education. Consumer: “Why doesn't the farmworker get a decent education?” In most cases the whole family has to work for the whole family to survive. It is a proven fact that 800,000 children under 16 work in the fields. Over half of the fields are between 10 and 13 years of age, because these children are needed to support the family income. 80 percent never reach high school. 50 percent of the farmworkers population never reach the seventh grade. Consumer: ”Why is the farmworker always so in debt that he cannot support his family?” It is like a whirlpool. Once one is caught up in it he can never get out no matter if the current is increased or decreased. The growers control the farmworker. The farmworker always finds himself indebted to the grower. Whenever they travel the grower gives the worker money, but he also charges a high rate of interest on this money. This free enterprise system is built on the theory of “rip off what you can from others, as they will rip you off.” Keeping this in mind, growers charge the highest prices they feel at the time for substandard transportation and dilapidated housing (96.5 percent of migrant housing does not have tubs or showers; 95 percent does not have a flush toilet; 90.4 percent has no sink; 18.4 percent has no electricity. In fact, 1969 figures from the US Dept, of Labor and Agriculture the average farmworker house only consists of 1.9 rooms.) Consumer: “How can farmworkers be so exploited?”. Farmworkers have always been so conveniently excluded from labor laws. Consumer: “Haven't there been some labor laws and proposals recently brought forth that the LJFWA in particular has opposed?” No, these proposals were not made for the benefit of the farmworker, but in contrast stood to benefit the grower. In fact many of the new proposals would take away the only weapon farmworkers have had the secondary boycott. Consumer: "What’s a secondary boycott?" That’s when a union pressures supermarkets and stores not to sell produce grown by a farmer involved in a labor dispute. Consumer: “What are the labor disputes between Teamsters and the UFWA?” Basically Teamster contractsare similar to Taxation without Representation. No one in the upper-inner office of the Teamsters is from a migrant background. The UFWA is made of Farmworkers, for farmworkers. The UFWA also eliminates the middleman who contracts workers and receives the greatest profit of all farmworkers. Consumer: "What is the number of farmworkers in the US?” Over one-fourth of the poor people in the US are farmworkers. Consumer: "I heard that the farmworker in the US is the highest paid agricultural worker in the world?” If one wants to compare the US income with that of anywhere else in the world it always holds true that the highest paid people are in the US. But it’s also true that one pays high rates for living in the US. According to the Govt. figures, $2,700 is the yearly income of a farmworker family of four. Most workers are paid a price rate based on how many units of produce they harvest. This figure of $2,700 is still below the national poverty rate. Consumer: “The teamster Union has published labor income of $213.80 weekly earnings and $3,000 for a 14 week period. “Many times Teamsters takes the foreman or field boss income as the prime example. He contracts the farmworkers in a manner similar to slave labor. Many times he makes three times as much as an average farmworker. He is the middleman. The middleman makes the most money, so by oppressing many people who work for him (by paying people what he wants per crate harvested) he makes a lot of money Consumer: “I thought the UFWA is a non-violent organization. Why do hear about these violent deaths of farm workers?" Two incidents which happened in the summer of ’73 are the deaths of Nagi Mohsin Daifullah and Juan De la Cruz, both farmworkers. Daifullah was killed while fleeing from a Kern County, California, deputy sheriff. He is believed to have been beaten to death with the officer’s flashlight. Juan De La Cruz was killed by gunfire while on the picket line on Aug. 16, 1973. These 2 deaths climaxed the summer’s series of “violent attacks directed against the Union pickets by growers, Teamsters goons, and law men in several counties in the San Joaquin Valley, Calif.” Consumer: “Why do the farmworkers go through such treatment?” They are fighting for their human rights.