EDITORIALS
What is the problem with ECMAS?
Seven years have passed since the first Chicano students were admitted into the University of Colorado under the EOP-program. These students began to set down long range goals which they hoped would one day benefit all Chicano students. One goal in particular was to see a strong and viable Chicano Studies program; a program capable of offering a major in Mexican-American Studies. It seems now however, these dreamers will have to wait another seven years before they can hopefully see their goal come true. The Chicano Studies department is currently offering only five spring semester courses and one is still undecided because supposedly, no one can be found to teach it. ECMAS professors are planning to team teach the course. What is the problem? Why isn't anything being done to develop a sound program and why are the persons who set this goal . . . still waiting. Sociology professor Salvador Ramirez was the first to begin the long and hard fight for a Chicano Studies program. He not only had to fight the administration, but he had to fight other Chicano professors. Ramirez had made considerable progress, but because of "peer group pressure" (a sociology term) he was forced to abandon the project and is now teaching elsewhere. Soon after Ramirez left, a handful of ‘Chicano Professionals' organized, calling themselves the Executive Committee on Mexican American Studies (ECMAS). Their objective was to pick-up where Ramirez left off. The ECMAS committee was later given the authority by Dean William Briggs of Arts & Sciences to further develop a Chicano Studies program. Apparently the ECMAS committee would not work as fast and as hard as Ramirez and the results were shocking. In October, some Chicano Studies courses were dropped for the '7s' spring term by the Sociology department because ECMAS had not submitted names of persons qualified to teach these classes before the deadline. A group of concerned students felt that we could not lose what few Chicano Studies courses we had so they began to question what ECMAS was doing for Chicano Studies. The students demanded input, after all. it was their future at stake and they wanted some of the decision making power. Feeling it was their right to govern the destiny of the Chicano Studies program, the ECMAS committee refused any kind of student input whatsoever. They were skeptical when it came to letting students attend their meetings. ECMAS.meetings were often postponed and scheduled tor later dates after it was learned that students were planning to attend. This "executive" committee is acknowledged by this university namely Dean Briggs. Both are in agreement that it is absurd that students control the Chicano studies program. Both are hiding behind a Regents "law" which states in effect that "only the faculty in any given department shall make the decisions tor that department. The dream to one day see a good Chicano studies program at the University of Colorado must hopefully come true. The only way we can do this is to all work together. We must stop fighting among each other and join forces for the good of all Chicanos involved.
