At Adams State College
Former UMAS president suspended
The former UMAS president at Adams State College, Arnold Salazar, has been suspended from school for two quarters, along with three other persons, because as he put it, “they want to get rid of student leaders and take away the rights of Chicano students." Salazar is the third consecutive UMAS president to be suspended or made to withdraw from the college. The three other students suspended are: Patricia Gallegos, a former AS&F senator. was suspended for two quarters; Beatrice Pacheco for one quarter, and Diane Rodriguez, for one quarter. It was deckled in a meeting Jan. 14, where President John Marvel and Vice President Turano gave a decision as to the future status of each student, that only Diane Rodriguez and Beatrice Pacheco would be allowed to return to classes if they follow certain regulations.
The students were suspended by a College Standards Board for participating in a Nov. 14 demonstration, brought on by an incident in which books needed by Chicano Studies majors were removed from a room, and use of the room given strictly to the faculty. The room was taken away by a group entitled BOCES (Board of Cooperative Educational Services). The CSB was established last summer by President Marvel, specifically to investigate a demonstration that occurred in March of *73 between Black and Chicano students, for which the four students were already on probation. Two of the CSB members who brought charges against the students are Connie Lewis and Omero Suarez, associate coordinators of an organization called Student Life. As stated in the student handbook, it is their
responsibility to promote harmonious relationships among all people in the community. According to Patricia Gallegos, Lewis and Suarez gave the students permission to demonstrate Nov. 14. "Yet they turned around and suspended us," she said. The CSB charged the students with violating six campus policies in the Student Life guide. The students claim they did not violate any rules, because it was a peaceful demonstration. And they have proof. Rule One states that students are expected to make only authorized entry to use an college facility. It is unclear to the students exactly how they violated this rule. All they know is what the rule says. If any student wants to go in any building on campus, he or she must call in for permission. It does not specify when authorization is needed or who
authorization applies to. The second rule states that students must identify themselves upon request of a college official. "No college official ever asked any college students to identify themselves." said Ms. Gallegos.
Adams State students protest removal of Chicano studies books.
