Guest Editorials
Editors note; The following editorial was taken from El Perico, a Greeley, Colo, community newsletter. It clearly demonstrates the apathy of local city officials as well as some community people. LA RAZA Where are we at? In 1970, in Fort Collins the Chicano community had a demonstration against the police dept, for its continual harassment and brutality of our people. It is very obvious that this demonstration and the Pomeroy Report did not solve the problem, but. what it did do was raise the level of consciousness of the people; that we as people do not have to sit around and be brutalized and not say anything about it. During the demonstration other issues were raised which concerned the Chicano people. The main issue was the education situation of our people. This led to the formation of the Mexican American Parent Advisory 1 Commission. The commission was made up of different factions of the Chicano community, whether they were involved with the school • district or not. The group met
regularly with school administrators to discuss problems, such as.school programs and 1 how to solve them. This hasn't worked. School officials who were not Chicanos became part of the .organization diluting it. By this 1 mean, there were all Chicanos, strong like a cup of black coffee. Then, as administrators were allowed to join, it was like putting cream in the coffee, making it weaker. Henceforth. La Raza never got down to discussing business together because we were always being given excuses and more mananas. For example, in October of 1972. a meeting was called with the school board to confront them as to why no action had been taken to rebuild La Porte. Avenue School which was promised since the bond election of 1966. No plans had been drawn up. no property had been bought, no nothing. The concerned citizens from the area, most of whom were Chicanos. confronted the school board at La Porte and got some action; a public commitment to rebuild the school. Today there is real proof that the school is being rebuilt. The
only catch is, will the school have Chicano paintings and architecture and will the curriculum change to really be bi lingual, bicultural? Getting the school board to do this one thing, was an accomplishment one battle won in a war that has to be waged daily in the schools. The problems of alcohol abuse, juvenile delinquency, carnal against carnal, no youth centers for Chicano dropouts, Chicanos being victimized by the police, low paying and unskilled jobs. Raza why do we wait until someone is hurt or kicked out of school, or fired from his job because he speaks out? We need to seriously think about bettering the Chicano conditions in this town. The movement needs people who arc dedicated and practice what will be preached daily; a group of people, young, old, rich or poor who see the Chicano movement as part of a world wide struggle for liberation from exploitation. injustice, degradation and greed, Chicanos, where are you at?
La Puente School
1 was hesitant about visiting La Puente School. I had called to make an appointment and Mr. Ron Heath, the director, was very explicit in stating that he was a very busy man. I felt as though I were an intruder and that he had no business making me feel that way. So, I went anyway, making it a point to be on time. He said he had a half-hour and we sat down while he gave me a run-down on what La Puente was all about. During this time, we talked and I think he began to feel that I was there because I was interested and sincere. I cared. His attitude began to change as he felt where I was coming from. And I understood. I understood that he didn’t have time for people who visit the school as though it were a zoo. He doesn’t have time to spend with people who have nothing to offer in return. His only concern is for the 54 boys at La Puente. The majority being Chicano and on probation with the juvenile courts are there as a sort of last
chance before the courts send them to an institution. Many boys are not court offenders but are there because they could not progress in the regular, inadequate jr. high school that was not serving their needs. La Puente is a hope for them to be able to continue their education. Formally, The Denver Youth Services Bureau, La Puente is a jr. high school funded partly by the Denver Anti-Crime Council and the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration (LEAA). Teachers are to be certified in the field of special education and are working on a 9-1 student-teacher ratio. They receive less than a Denver Public School teacher and are without the fringe benefits. The school operates in what appears to be an old, run-down building, formally, St. Patricks School, However, on the inside progress is being made as students help paint the walls utilizing whatever materials are available to make things a bit brighter. Having been a unit counselor at juvenile hall and a probation officer for two years. Ron Heath
knows his boys well. The atmosphere of the school is flexible and at the same time structured, depending upon what the situation calls for. 95% of the boys have a consistent record of offenses and are on probation. I guess, La Puente could be seen as one last hope in an attempt to keep a child out of the detention homes, out of the so called places of “rehabilitation.” Ron maintains that the main criteria of anyone working for the school is to care. To be able to care and to feel. His emphasis is on helping the total person. This being his first priority, subject matter, school attendance, etc. take precedence next. The basics, reading, writing, and math are the main subjects stressed. Whenever possible, art people come in. However, funds are short and it isn’t always possible to pay people to teach in other areas. “Holding Power” is a term Ron uses to describe the length of time it takes to capture the interest of the student, motivate him and then keep it at a fairly
high level. Therefore, a complete evaluation is done of the student when he enters the school. He proceeds at his own pace. Conduct and performance is studied daily by the faculty. A point system is used whereby rewards are given in the forms of verbal approval, concert tickets, T-shirts, pins, money, once a week and field trips are arranged from river rafting trips, sledding, to a trip out of the country to Matazlan, Mexico. Points are received for showing up for class, for getting there on time, for not hasselling, etc. The top man in each home room receives the most points but they are moved around so that every youngster achieves at one time or other. Attitude points are also removed at the end of each day upon evaluation. Emphasis is placed on doing things together and being positive with the kids. They need to belong and to feel that La Puente is one school that is on their side; working for them and not against them. Youngsters are not suspended for absenteeism but they are reprimanded and the idea is put across that they are needed and wanted in school. Often, a member of the school will drive out to their homes and pick them up. Not as a truant officer but as a brother who cares. The over-all percentage of attendance in school has increased while offenses have decreased. What about the future? There is a great need for volunteer help and donations. Hopefully, one day, La Puente may enlarge to give the youngsters the opportunity to graduate rather than be sent back to the school that rejected them in the first place.
