Consumer column i’m so small what can i do?by Patricia GarciaOne need not look very hard in today’s society to see that the rich keep getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. And if one is born into poverty, as many of our people are; (on a migrant farm or in an urban ghetto) then the chances of escaping that environment will probably be very slim unless one has an opportunity to become educated. It is a fact that unemployment rates are higher for Chicanos as compared to Anglos and Blacks, and unemployment is even higher yet, among our elderly folks. They are poorer than most Mexican-Americans of all age groups and poorer than most Anglo-aged people. It is time we start showing more concern for our people, young and old alike and doing something—taking action, to better the living conditions, working conditions, as well as health and social conditions for our raza. Consumer education seems to be a viable alternative toward alleviating many of the limitations and restrictions that are placed upon the poor. But to many people, consumer education means very little. “The Poor Pay More” Some of the basic problems of the disadvantaged are: 1) low-income, 2) lack of low-cost credit, 3) lack of information, 4) fraud and deception, 5) legal exploitation, 6) inadequate housing. 7) lack of social services. Because of low income, the poor are often unable to make cash I purchases except in small, uneconomical quantities. The modern competitive marketing facilities are not part of the economic structure of the barrios, and low-income consumers often are unaware of bargains or better buys, better shopping areas, and better quality. Thus the odds are that for the poor person, the savings in buying during bargain time will be very slim, for they usually do not have the “cash” needed at the time, to buy items of sale price. When they finally do get the money, the bargains will have all been picked over by those who did have the cash. In a society which depends so much on credit as one of the means of attaining life’s necessities, the poor often lack adequate information about the true cost of credit. It is not surprising then, that the poor man often does not qualify for low-cost loans. This is because most banks regard him as a bad risk. Credit for borrowing is available to the poor (only if they are employed), at higher rates. And under most state laws a buyer is forced to pay even if the merchandise is never delivered or does not live up to warranty. As you can see this stipulation places a great amount of pressure on the poor and obviously is often not worth pursuing in the long run. No Protection The percentage of fraudulous and deceptive practices is high within the barrios although laws have been designed for protection of unfair practices by creditors. Many of these laws, however, must be enforced through legalities. Since most poor people do not have remedial access to legal assistance and are often intimidated by the idea of legal proceedings, this effectively amounts to legal exploitation and thus to no protection at all. House-Poor Homeowners It is ironic that homes owned by people which once showed pride and achievement, now represent poverty and isolation. Old houses and buildings which generally have building code violations, comprises the low-income ghettos and barrios with substandard facilities. The housing is usually both bad and expensive. Landlords often do not keep tenant housing in good repair because it is “costly” to them, and frequently will not even fulfill obligations of providing heat, hot water, and custodial care. Public officials and agencies, too, are often negligent in health and building code enforcement. Because of lack of economic or political power, residents receive little or poor services from officials and social agencies. Besides being subjects of eviction, streets remain unpaved and unrepaired, public transportation is inconvenient and expensive, schools are inadequate, and recreation and health facilities are inferior. It is interesting to know that the poor consumers are paying for these services through taxes, at the same rates as the rich. All these conditions then, will limit a low-income consumer and restricts such choices as where to live, where to shop, where to borrow, and overall, how to improve the conditions in which he lives. But where does one begin to understand and analyze their consumer problems? Consumer action programs can be of help in beginning to change the condition of the poor consumer. These alternative programs can operate to bring the poor consumer an opportunity to live better and experience some control over one’s own destiny. I In the next issue of El Diario we will look at consumer action programs in more depth. Tune in next month.