Lafayette Steamway competes nationallyLafayette Steam way, a flag football team consisting of 30 football players from the Lafayette-Louisville area, met head on with local challengers, in a successful with a 25 to 3 season, winning them one of two positions in the national touch football series in St. Louis over the Thanksgiving weekend. Local competition included ex-football players, many who were ex-pro and collegiate players. Lafayette Steamway, consisting of mostly Chicanos, used unity and experience in upholding a near perfect season against oversized opponents and gaining national recognition, for a highly sought position. Previously holding a 40 and 4 record for the first 4 years of their 5 years of playing together, Lafayette Steam way met their goal this season—nationalcompetition—in a hard drive that left them 25 and 3 for this season. Ron Garcia, quarterback for the team, said the team knew what to expect this year. They had all been football players in high school and had played together for 5 years. Organized by Frank Archuleta, coach for Steam way, the team took on major state teams and 3 tournament leagues this season. Tackling such teams as the Arvada Roughriders, averaging 279 lbs. on the line, Lafayette destroyed the Roughriders’ perfect record (49-0 being their closest game) with a 32-19 win. The three games lost by the team were all 2 or less point losses. “I still believe we can play anyone in the state,” Garcia said.Archuleta, key organizer, guided Steamway to a successful win in the Denver League that entitled them to a position in national series. With the drive and spirit of Mike Garcia, defensive lineup, Andy Calvo, halfback and leading scorer, Sam Villapando, quarterback and half back and Dale Cranei, middle guard, Lafayette Steamway can claim themselves to be a top notch Chicano flag football team in the country. They will compete in national competition against such teams as one from Minnesota, made up of players cut from the Minnesota Vikings professional football team. The magnitude of such confrontations are what make Lafayette Steamway the strong and powerful team it is.