. . . Not ‘because you are a Chicano’
Editor’s note: Due to the lack of space in our December issue, this article dated No v. 9 w as not printed in November or December. It is being printed in this issue so that everyone may have a chance to read it. Our apologies to Manuel Arcadia. 9 November 1974 For the last two days I have been talking to myself and to several friends to find the proper way to deal with an incident that took place between two members of the Boulder Police Department and me. It originated in the vicinity of Broadway and 14th Street. It ended outside the house where I live. These are the events as they took place: I had committed a traffic violation which consisted of stopping momentarily for a friend to get out of my car. Then, I went on my way to the parking lot behind Jones’ Drug Store. When I returned to the parking lot twenty minutes later and got in my car. a police vehicle driver, named R. R. Chastain (Badge No. 70), moved the vehicle behind mine, obstructing my exit. He asked me for my documents, my driver’s license and the car’s registration, on grounds that I had obstructed traffic when I was “picking up a hitch-hiker” according to his words. The self-assurance with which this man argued something that was not basically true, and then my coming to the realization that he had been waiting for me this time to ticket me for such an insignificant violation made me speak out. I reacted to his assumptions on principle, and I tried to make it clear to him that his perceptions were distorted. Then I proceeded to let him know that I didn’t have my driver's license on me but I asked him to come with me to my house where I would be glad to show it to him. He then asked me for my name and date of birth, which I gave him. He wrote these down. He went to verify the information. Five minutes later, he came back to where I was blocked in, unable to move because the automobile that is provided for him to carry out his work (?) was obstructing my traffic. He came back to tell me that the computer didn’t show any record of me. His assumptions again were clear to me: he was giving more credit to the
machine than to my word. He was accepting the computer's word as gospel, and ignoring the fact that I had asked him to come to my house and see for himself, with his own eyes. So I replied to him that if that was the case, then it was his problem and not mine. He then proceeded to issue me a ticket, specifying that he was issuing it for driving without documents, and not for the original violation, because a long time had passed. Again he asked me for my date of birth although he had already written it down presumably to catch me in a lie. So I was forced to repeat it for him. because he said he would Veep me there all day if necessary. After a superficial exchange of words, I left the “scene of the crime” and headed home. Ten minutes later. I realized that I had forgotten some of the things 1 had gone to get. I got into my car again, and one block from the house, another police car comes and begins to follow me, to honk his horn at me, and finally to make me stop. Again the same rhetoric: 'Show me your documents,” and so forth. This time 1 asked him why, 1 asked him if I had committed any violations or given him any reason at all to make him interfere with my life. And the same answer from him, “Show me your documents,” Only, this time, his voice sounded more authoritative and scary, . . . you know. Before I showed him my driver’s license, I once again insisted on asking why he had stopped me. And this time he said something like "It’s a routine check,” or words to that effect. Immediately the question that came to my mind was. “Why does he choose me for his "routine checks’ and not any of the many drivers that are passing by?” This is not the first time that something like this has happened to me, and I am sure that it has happened to many of you. The second question that came to my mind was, "'Are these policemen/women allowed to stop people indiscriminately on their own judgment for their so-called routine checks?” Do they actually have this authority? As an example, 1 would like to ask Mr. Fitzpatrick (Badge No. 55). the driver of the second car, or Mr. Chastain if they would stop the automobile of the Governor of the State of Colorado, if he passed their way.
and tell him, “We’re just stopping you for a routine check. Sir.”? As I was showing my documents to Mr. Fitzpatrick. I made clear to him that I was aware of the tactics that had been used against me. I was aware that his comrade had given him a full description of my vehicle and of me by means of the radio furnished by the State with the people’s money. I was aware that he had been waiting outside my house, and that he had followed me to ask me for the documents that the other man had already cited me for. Previously, R.R. Chastain had mentioned completely on his own that he was not acting this way “because you are a Chicano.” something that I had not even considered up to that point. But now it makes me wonder. There is something that we must keep reminding our " law enforcers” about at all times. Something that they tend to forget, so conveniently, and that is. that they are hired by the People to protect the People, ALL people, not only those that are holding high political office, as we have seen in the past, as we are seeing in the present, and that I hope —for everybody’s sake we shall stop seeing in the not distant future. They must be reminded that it is with the People’s money that they buy the groceries that they take to their families; yes, it is with my money, with the product of my work, I keep these " law enforcers' at work to enforce a system of laws that is only applied against me never against true violators. And now I would like to ask each of these men, what they think about every morning when they put on their uniforms and get into our patrol cars and if they ever think of the Nixons and the Agnews and the Rockefellers of this nation, that are proven criminals and are still running loose. My question is, if they are sincerely concerned about “law -and order” then why is it that they are not doing anything to see that the laws are enforced in these cases? They seem, instead, to delight in spending their time and energy in a futile game that has never brought any results and that never will bring any results, simply because their attitude, and their maneuvers and tactics serve only
to alienate the People whom they are supposed to protect and to alienate themselves from their own consciences, which is the saddest consequence for them, in the long run. Manuel Arcadia
