200 Years Of Oppression"These people sleep by day and prowl by night"The 1930 Hearings The year 1929 ushered in the Great Depression. Whereas the number of Mexicans entering the United States from 1925 to 1929 was 238,527, from 1930 to 1934, only 19,200 migrated into the country. During the years from 1935 to 1939, this number fell even further—to 8,737. The decline in Mexican immigration did not, however, quiet the restrictionists, they only became more vocal. The House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization again began hearings in 1930. The debates were a replay of the previous hearings. Once more, agricultural and industrial interests defended the Mexican’s “special standing,” and once more, the same interests were against their immigration. Of the several bills introduced in 1930, the Harris Bill loomed as the major one. There, new arguments were advanced for restriction: widespread unemployment, the racial undesirability of the Mexican ; and his alleged un-Americanism.” The best example of overt racism can be found in a report prepared for John Box by Dr. Roy L. Garis of Vanderbilt University. As an “authority” on Eugenics, Garis wrote: Their minds run to nothing higher than animal functions — eat, sleep, and sexual debauchery. In every huddle of Mexican shacks one meets the same idleness, hordes of hungry dogs, and filthy children with faces plastered with flies, disease, lice, human filth, stench, promiscuous fornication, bastardy, lounging, apathetic peons and lazy squaws, beans and dried chili, liquor, general squalor, and hatred of the gringo. These people sleep by day and prowl by night like coyotes, stealing anything they can get their hands on, no matter how useless to them it may be. Nothing left outside is safe unless padlocked or chained down. Yet there are Americans clamoring for more of this human swine to be brought over from Mexico. Garis continued that the only difference between Mexican women of the lower and higher class was that the high-class Mexican women were just more “sneaky in adultery.” Groups such as the Immigration Restriction League, Inc., of New York asserted that the Mexican could not be assimilated to Anglo-American institutions. It charged, “It is ridiculous for us to limit European immigration and continue to admit Mexican peon 1ab0r...” Moreover, it rightfully stated that Mexicans were not naturalizing and becoming Anglo-American citizens like other immigrants. From Occupied America—The Chicano struggle toward liberation by Rodolfo Acuna.