Letter to editorEditor's Note: Hector Subia was transferred to Medium Security at the beginning of October. Within a week of his transfer, Subia was called on the loudspeaker to the main complex of the prison. He was then taken to the hospital in the prison again. September 29, 1975 Greetings, My revolutionary love and respect to you and all the Chicanos de Boulder. Well, as you’ve heard, the prison is in a state of lock-up again. Cell House 1 is for the Chicanos and C-H 7 for the Blacks. Plus C-H 3 is all around lock-up. Things here seem to be getting more and more out of hand. But as I’ve stated before, prison officials love unrest, riots, killings, and lock-ups. Or something would be done to change this racist cold-blooded system of C.S.P. We keep hearing promises of community base programs, programs here inside the walls, such as training for jobs. But as always their words are as empty as their minds. Something must be done to help us all. We were not sent here to die. We were sent for help and to pay for our crimes. But society is not giving us a chance, because they are aware of prison unrest, problems can be worked out, if someone out here would care enough to help us. Even before this last riot Sept. 28th, 1975, out of 3 cell houses 2 were locked-up. One must wonder, as to the type of administration that heads C.S.P. As our calls for help to them has not been heard. Yet I hear on the radio, that changes are taking place here. Grantedthey are, they are going from bad to worse. We are Political Prisoners, as what crimes we committed, were and are due to society’s hang-ups. We are society’s and C.S.P. failures because they are too taken up playing their roles in politics, they worry more about who will run for office, etc. and do nothing about our problems here at C.S.P. I often wonder, where will this end! Must this prison be another Attica, must good brothers die a slow death daily, before something, someone comes to our AID? HELP! Your newspapers really add light to what might be a dark hole in my life. The article about your summer program was beautiful! I’ve been to college and I know the problems of college life. One cannot learn of the love and understanding between Chicanos unless they enter the world of CARNALISMO Y CHICANISMO. Sure you can stand on the sidelines and hear talk. But all you’ll hear is what the teller wants you to hear. In order to hear the true facts, in order to feel the Beauty of Brotherhood, one must enter their struggle, take part of reality, be, feel, love, understand and most of all GIVE, for then and only then can anyone know what La Revolucion, La Causa, El Movimento, or whatever you want to call our struggle, is! Myself, I call it Life, for without my Gente, without love, in all reality: What is life? Viva La Familia Cosmica. I’ll be back at Medium Security Oct. 2nd, I hope that I’ll see yourself and many others de Boulder at the juntos there. As just seeing a Beautiful Brother/Sister brings hope and faith into our hearts. As we NEED your support in here. The younger vatos, need a pretty face, a soft voice andunderstanding de una chicana in order to see what’s being missed. SMILE. In Struggle, Hector Subia VENCEREMSO VIVA LA RAZA DE BOULDER VIVA LA CRUSADA Y VIVA MI HITA WINKIE, wherever your mom took you!