A SMALL CHANGE IN YOUR LIFE CAN MAKE A BIG CHANGE IN OURS. Find you have to understand. The family farm is pone. It’s been replaced by the giant agribusiness corporation. a factory - in-the-fields with thousands of men. women and children picking food assembly-line style. It's miserable. backbreaking work. And the people who do it are powerless and impoverished. Excluded from the victories won by their brothers and sisters in the factories of the cities. This is why the Farmworkers n< eded a union. To bring them into the Twentieth Century. To win for them the basic rights that most people who work for a living take l for granted. Tin- union they have chosen is the United Farm Workers of America. ITFW for short. The UFW has won for its people major victories that have changed their lives in the past ten years. They got child labor and dangerous pesticides out of the fields. They negotiated for. and won. a decent, hourly wage. They won medical benefits and pensions. They built schools and health care centers and retirement villages. Elected their own leadership. And established A. a sense of pride and purpose in their own people. So . . I localize the UFW is the people, it is not very popular with the growers. Which led the growers to look fora union that saw things their way. What they found was the Teamsters. A union that neither invites nor allows its people to participate in the negotiations and decisions that affect their lives. A union that claims the support of the workers, but refuses to allow free elections to see if the workers really want it. A union that hires highly paid thugs and goon squads to break lawful strikes and picket lines. A union that is not above bringing illegal aliens into the fields to replace workers who are out on strike. A union with a documented history of using violence as a means of settling disputes. Does it look like the Farmworkers have two unions? Perhaps. They nave one union that takes care of the growers, and one that takes care of them. One that would die tomorrow if the people in the fields were allowed to vote. And one that would survive as living proof that the people who produce the food and the people who harvest it can enter into a partnership to feed us all. And each other in the bargain. What’s your part in all this? Well, as we said in the beginning. first you have to understand. If you do understand, you will cast your vote for the Farmworkers, the growers, and yourself, by not buying grapes, head lettuce or Gallo wines.* Because the growers understand the power of the purse. And if people all over America support justice for Farmworkers, the growers will have to support it too. Giving up grapes. Fating some other kind of lettuce besides iceberg head lettuce, and buying another brand of wine won’t make much difference in your life. But it’ll make a big difference in ours. ■ The UFW needs active support. If you can spare an hour or two a week to help the _ farmworkers achieve I” dignity and self determination In the I fields, contact: The- ■ Parra Labor Task Force I Univ. of Colo. UMC 186 11*92-81437 VIVA LA HUELGA DONT BUY GRAPES, HEAD LETTUCE OR GALLO WINE!