An alternative schoolDel Pueblo school under attackby Ray LopezDel Pueblo (of the people), an alternative school, located on the west side of Denver, 750 Galapago St. has been subject to criticism recently from Denver School Board members. According to the school board members, students attending Del Pueblo scored below average on standardized tests given them in the spring.Many factors must be considered before harsh judgements can be made by school board members. Del Pueblo has been undergoing several changes for the last two years. The students and staff have had to adjust to a new building with huge instructional areas. The pupil-teacher ratio increased from one teacher for every 17 students to oneteacher for every 25 students. The average class size grew to 31 students. Teachers who had received any. training in bilingual/bicultural education had to be transferred to meet court rulings. Set grade levels by age guidelines used by the Denver school systems are not used at Del Pueblo, is another important consideration to take into account. Pilot program The school began as a pilot program in 1974. Del Pueblo received monies from the ESAA (Emergency School Aid Act) which were allocated by the Denver Public School System. Del Pueblo demonstrates the encouragement of retention of the Spanish language and culture. It also generates a brotherhood throughout the school. Teachers and the administrative staff said they hope to build up the Chicano student’s self image in order to increase his learning, by making him feel more at ease in school.Rooms are labeled in Spanish and English. Halls are decorated with murals and stamps of Mexican-Indian civilizations as reminders and inspirations of the great beauty of the past. The children are grouped in familias of Aztecs, Mayans, Zapotecs, and Toltecs, instead of traditional grade level groupings. The program at Del Pueblo has been criticized unjustly. It should be remembered this program has existed only two years. The true measure of success will come in time, when the students themselves can certify the benefits of Del Pueblo.