College of engineering Enrollment edging upward
Two years ago the University of Colorado College of Engineering and Applied Science set out to encourage more racial minorities to enter the school and from there to join the engineering profession. The effort is working. The Engineering Minority Program (EMP), under the direction of Dr. John C. Twombly of the Department of Electrical Engineering, has increased minority enrollment in the engineering school every year since the program began in 1973. In 1972, only one per cent of the 44,000 engineering graduates in the United States were minorities, Twombly said. He pointed out that, in contrast, minorities make up seven per cent of this year’s CU engineering enrollment, an increase of one per cent from last year. “I am confident we (EMP) contributed to that increase,” Twombly said. “I feel we are reaching our objective.” EMP was initiated by the Engineering Development Council, an advisory CU alumni board, when the council became concerned that minorities were not adequately represented in the engineering profession Twombly explained. There are two reasons why
minority involvement in engineering has been so small, according to Twombly. First, often the educational background of minorities entering college is inadequate to prepare them for engineering. This causes them to avoid the field. Twombly said. Second, minorities hesitate to take up engineering because of misunderstandings about the profession. Most people do not understand what engineers do. Twombly said. But engineering is ”a-racial. a-ethnic,” Twombly insisted. Whatever one’s ethnic or racial background, “Newton’s law is Newton’s law.” Operating under this tenet. EMP has two objectives, to encourage minorities to enter the engineering school and to be available to minority students for tutoring, counseling, career guidance and encouragement. EMP also provides various services for minority students once they are enrolled in the engineering school. Most of all. according to Twombly. the program tries to reach the students on an individual basis. “The main fact that there is an office here with a staff boosts the (minority) students' morale,” he said.
