Applejack’s still selling Gallo
A bright red ’Huelga' Hag stuck out the rear window and heads bobbed back and forth as a car eased into the parking lot at Applejack Liquors, 3320 Youngfield St. in Wheat Ridge. Meanwhile, inside the store busy shoppers prepared for the Thanksgiving holiday. Gallo wines were selling like hotcakes . . . . “besides,” said a clerk to a customer “Madria, Madria Sangria goes well with anything." Outside, United Farm Workers Union supporters piled out of the car, grabbed their picket signs and carefully unfolded the ’Huelga’ Hags. More people began to arrive and soon they were ready to carry-out a peaceful informational picket line. Why Gallo and Applejack's In 1973, when.a contract between the and the California based Gallo Winery had expired, Gallo deceptively signed a "sweetheart" contract (a contract between management and a labor leader which benefits them at the expense of the rank and file) with the Teamsters Union hoping to crush the UFW. The United Farm Workers Union in conjunction with its many supporters is fighting back and latest figures indicate that in St. Louis, 75% of all liquor stores have Gallo products off the shelves. In Denver, UFW organizers had long since singled out Applejack because "they are the largest non-cooperating distributors of wine in the Denver area." Prior to the picket campaign against them UFW organizers were optimistic. Since other large
liquor distributors such as Harry Hoffman’s of Denver had agreed to stop selling Gallo, hopes were that Applejack’s would follow the same. Unreceptive to the plight of the farmworker. Applejack management refused to remove Gallo scab wines from their shelves and at the least refused to allow UFW informational leaflets to lay on the counters for customers to read. The fight was on as a result of Applejack’s decision. Leaflets were handed out all day; some were wadded-up by customers and thrown in the trash and others were neatly folded put in the pocket to be read later. At the end of the day the picket line captain logged a successful day. Arrests and lawsuits Following that November day of last year a chain of events occurred resulting in the arrests of 22 persons and the filing of three separate lawsuits against the Jefferson County Sheriffs Dept. The suits were filed in Federal Court by three female UFW supporters. They are asking for damages totaling $50,000 each. On Thanksgiving Day 14 UFW supporters staged a sit-in at Applejacks. The police were called and each protester was issued *a summons to appear in court. Two hours later they were removed by force. The next day, attornies for Applejack Liquors were successful in obtaining a ten-day restraining order against the pickets. This limited the number of pickets allowed to stand at the doorway to two. On Nov. 30 a mass picket was
held at the store to protest the arrest of Jerry Ryan, head of the UFW boycott office in Denver. Ryan was arrested the previous day on the picket line. The mass picket resulted in the arrests of 1 7 persons. Guards watch strip Arlene Irlando of the Farm Labor Task Force in Boulder said that police suddenly rushed the picket line in an effort to disperse the crowd. She said police grabbed and wrestled with two women who weren’t on the picket line but standing against a car in the parking lot. Ms. Irlando said police read the restraining order to the crowd, which by law police are required to do, but didn’t allow them to disperse. The routine arrest procedures were then carried out. The women, however, were put in solitary confinement. "The reason we were put in solitary cells was because the police said we were, the mouth of the group," said Irlando. She saiu one of those arrested was a female school teacher who was held down by male guards and stripped by a matron. "We were forced in one way or another to strip in front of male guards," Irlando saic Since then, as a result of their humiliating experience, three women have filed suits against the Jefferson County* Sheriffs Dept. They are asking for damages totaling $50,000 each. More restirctions On Dec. 9 and 10 a hearing was held to determine whether the UFW had violated the earlier ten day restraining order. Again the judge ordered that the number oi
picketers at the doorway be reduced this time it was to be just one. He also ruled that no bullhorns could be used and mass pickets in the store's parking lot were prohibited. Meanwhile in another courtroom, the persons arrested on Nov. 30 were all found guilty and given a 20-day jail sentence. The jail sentences were suspended under the condition they wouldn't go within 100 feet of the Applejack Liquor store. On Dec. 21 a handful of persons conducted a picket on the sidewalk next to Applejack. UFW attornies marked off the 100 feet for those who were ordered to stay away and as a result formed their own picket line across the street. The court injunction was not being violated and no one was arrested. Christmas in jail. Three days later, Jerry Ryan, one of those restricted to 100 feet
was once again arrested and as a consequence spent Christmas Eve and Christmas Day in jail. Ryan was charged with violating an earlier court injunction which prohibited the use of a bullhorn. Ryan contends he did not violate the injunction because he was across the street and not on the liquor store premises. Following the court hearings, the rulings, the injunctions, and all the legalities, pickets arc now restricted to just about everything including their Constitutional Rights. The size of picket signs has been regulated, one picket to the doorway, no chanting or singing and most picketers are now prohibited trom coming within sight or sound of the liquor store. "We're not going to die or give up the fight," said a UFW supporter as she prepared for yet another confrontation with the Applejack Liquor store.
The site of many picketlines regarding Gallo wine has been Applejack Liquors.
