“UNA ACCION DE SUBLIME HEROISMO”UNCONDITIONAL FREEDOM. NOW!October 20, 1950, marks one of the most glorious days in the history of Puerto Rico. Under the leadership of Don Pedro Albizu Cantpos, the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico rose in arms against the Yankee imperialism. With their lives and their weapons, the corn-patriots reaffirmed Puerto Rico’s inalienable rights to be free, soverign, and independent. In the town of Jayuya—which was taken by the liberating forces—the Second Republic of Puerto Rico was proclaimed. But the Yankee imperialists mobilized their puppet troops on the Island—the infamous National Guard—and under its military directive, one of the most repressive periods ever sufferedby the Puerto Rican people was initiated. Whole towns were bombed by the U.S. Air Force planes; the homes of the Nationalists and other independentists were riddled with bullets, and illegal searches were conducted at gun point. Hundreds were arrested. The home of Don Pedro Albizu Campos was attacked by the puppet police troops, the National Guard, and the F. 8.1. After hours of heroic resistance which kept the repressive forces at bay, Don Pedro and his comrades were taken prisoners. The Jayuya Revolution is, therefore, the living testimony of a people that rises in arms to kick the invaders out of its territory. The attack on Blair House Three days later, on November 1, a Puerto Rican commando composed of Griselio Torresola and Oscar Collazo attacked Blair House, temporary residence of the president of the United States, Harry Truman. It was Truman who, months before, through his secretary of defense, had ordered the colonial government in Puerto Rico to totally eliminate the Nationalists, including Don Pedro Albizu Campos. This plan was discovered by the Nationalist Party, and the whole thing climaxed in the October 30th Revolution. Oscar and Griselio, residents of New York, learning of the Revolution in Puerto Rico, tried to travel to the Island to participate in it. But, for unknown reasons, they were unable to get tickets in the airlines that traveled to Puerto Rico. From their desire to participate in the Revolution, and the frustration of not being able to get to the Island, the plan to attack the Blair House was bom. In the imperialists’ own land, these two heroes, arms in hand, reiterated Puerto Rico’s right to be independent. Griselio Torresola was killed in the action, and Oscar Collazo was seriously wounded. Sentenced to death, Oscar saw his sentence commuted to life in prison, thanks to the massive solidarity given to him, and the cause which he represented, both in the United States and on the international level. One of the hardest working persons in the Oscar Collazo Defense Committee, established in New York in 1951, was a young Nationalist—Lolita Lebron. Oscar Collazo, a living example of devout and unshakable patriotism, is still in jail, which makes him the longest held political prisoner in the Western Hemisphere, and possibly in the world. The attack on the U.S. Congress Years later, on March 1, 1954, in the Chambers of the U.S. Congress, the bullets of independence blared out again. Puerto Rico is alive, and continues to struggle for its independence—this was the message that those bullets carriedthroughout the world. The Nationalist commando, composed of Lolita Lebron, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Irving Flores and Andres Figueroa Cordero, was arrested after the heroic action. This action took place at a time when the U.S. government was. trying to hide from the rest of the world the true colonial condition of Puerto Rico, through the creation of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (Free Associated State). The participants in the action, as well as Oscar Collazo, are still in the United States’ jails. Lolita was given a sentence of 16 years and 8 months to 50 years in jail. Rafael, Irving and Andrea are serving a sentence of 25 to 75 years. Both in the case of Oscar as well as in the case of Lolita and her comrades, even before the judicial process, they were already tried by the media and public opinion in this country. They were all called mad people, fanatics, etc. Howeve! 1 , for the Puerto Rican independentist forces, they are clear examples of dedication to the struggle for national liberation. At the present time, Lolita is imprisoned in Alderson, West Virginia, Oscar, Andres and Irving in Leavenworth, Kansas and Rafael in the federal penitentiary in Marion, 111. A nation at war We cannot lose sight of the fact that the Nationalist Revolt of 1950, as well as the attack on the Blair House, and the attack on the U.S. Congress, are a direct consequence of an imperialist act of war and aggression. We are referring to the Yankee invasion of Puerto Rico on July 25, 1898. Since that moment, when by the force of their weapons and invading troops they set foot on Puerto Rican soil, there exists a state of war between an intervened nation (Puerto Rico), and an intervening imperialist state (the United States of North America). The armed intervention of 1898 was followed by a complete economic and political control, cultural aggression, and the imposition of the U.S. citizenship on the Puerto Rican people. Since then, the imperialists have dominated the economic, political and social development of the Island. Thus, Puerto Rico became the Yankee’s most important colonial possession in Latin America. In the 1930’5, pressed by the liberating forces under the leadership of the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico, the Yankees mobilized all their repressive machinery to try to annihilate the Puerto Rican revolutionary forces. The Rio Piedras Massacre (1934), the imprisonment of Don Pedros Albizu Campos and other Nationalist leaders through fixed trials (1936), the Ponce Massacre (1937), are only a few instances of hundreds of acts of aggression committed bythe invading forces on the Puerto Rican people during that period. These acts occurred within the historical context of an occupied and oppressed nation confronting the intervening and oppressive state. The fact that Oscar Collazo, Lolita Lebron, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Andres Figueroa Cordero, and Irving Flores are today in the U.S. jails is a direct consequence of the acts of aggression mentioned above. As a result of all these repressive acts, a committee has been formed in New York: The Committee for the Freedom of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Prisoners. This committee fills an existing void, since at this time there is no organized force in the United States whose primary responsibility is to struggle for the unconditional release of these Puerto Rican policial prisoners. The work of this committee is guided by three basic principals of unity: 1. The right of Puerto Rico as well as the right of all nations—to be free and independent. 2. The unconditional release of the Puerto Rican nationalist political prisoners. 3. International solidarity with all political prisoners of struggling nations against allforms of oppression. All individuals and organizations that accept these principles of unity, and are willing to honestly and consistently work for the unconditional freedom of these five defenders of Puerto Rico’s right to independence are hereby invited to immediately join the work ol this committee. At the present time, our work is focusing on: 1. The formation of committees or local groups in New York, as well as in other cities and states, with the objective ol making known to the people th< case of the five Nationalist prisoners, and mobilize people to demand their unconditional release; 2. The preparation and distribution of educational materials about the Nationalists (pamphlets, flyers, oosters. buttons, etc.); 3. The planning of a national action for Saturday. November 1, 1975, to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the attack on Blair House. From the Committee for thi Freedom of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Prisoners Box H 164 161 East Houston Street New York, NY. 10002