Dora EsquibelSystem harrasses familyDora Esquibel, a former CUUMAS student, now attending USC, is facing a two year sentence for alleged conspiracy, accessory to burglary, felonious joy riding, and possession of stolen property, namely guns. All charges have been dropped except for two: receiving stolen goods, and accessory after the fact. Recently, she was found innocent of receiving stolen goods by the jury, and guilty of accessory after the fact. A motion for parole was made and denied. Dora’s two youngest children have been affected mentally and socially by the trial. She has seen her son, Randy sent to a reformatory. She keeps having to pay for a guilt not fairly proven, she lost her job and chances of getting a decent job in the future look worse with each passing day. Dora and her family have been harrassed by La Junta j police ever sence they moved back to their native community. In August, 1974, police broke into her home and illegally searched her house on the Dora's lawyers have filed for a new trial charging the previous trial was discriminatory and based on Dora’s political activism. The motion for a new trial is expected to be denied. If this happens, she will appeal to a 1 higher court. Dora, the mother of four children, has been struggling, for the past ten years to supportherself and her four children and educate herself. The Esquibel family is an example of how the system can destroy a Chicano family, pretext of looking for a runaway - child. Her son, Ronny, 16, was handcuffed and taken to the police station. Dora filed a lawsuit against this illegal search. Police didn’t file any charges. The Esquibel home was constantly under surveillance. Neighbors claim to have seen policemen shooting BB’s at her car and house windows, causing mental and economic stress. Whenever Randy was seen in the street the police would run their siren. He was immediately singled out as the one responsible for organizing a school walkout for the celebration protest of el 16 de Septiembre.