The reality of drug abuseMethadone is a suppressant drug. It is administered through treatment as an alternative to heroin. It’s there to keep you quiet. What better way to keep the Chicano quiet and allow society to be unaware of what is happening, than by feeding him methadone? The Chicano must be heard. He must find out what methadone is really doing to him. Drug information is available through the drug services offered by the Boulder Mental Health Center. Drug Abuse Services Project is a program evolving out of one of three grants of Boulder Mental Health Center, providing outreach and treatment for substance abuse as well as integrating and advocating mental health. Galen Sanchez, coordinator of this service project emphasizes the importance of outreach into the community and establishing a family-type situation rather than a therapist-client type situation. The problem of providing affirmative services to the Chicano is that often the problem exists with several political overtones according to Sanchez. The REALITY is that Chicanos are often unaware of what is actually going on in some treatments. Junk seems to be picking up in the barrio and it is coming out of one place in Colorado— Pueblo. According to a reliable source this heroin distribution is being controlled by one family out of Pueblo—a white family. It’s a white man’s tool to hold the Chicano back and if youdon’t believe it, look at someone hooked on junk. According to Sanchez, he has never met anyone who has tried heroin that has not eventually been lead to dependence on the drug. Right now, junk has not been too accessible so those who have recently begun using it are not yet dependent on it. There are rumors that this family in Pueblo is putting more effort into the barrio. If this is true, the heroin mainstream will be growing even larger in our familia de la raza, unless it is stopped. Once it hits the streets, this junk is only 2-3% pure heroin, a poor quality for the heavy price one has to pay for it, and it all leads back to the same methadone treatment trip. The pot being sold around five points in Denver compared to the pot being sold in white Suburbia is extremely different. The people in the inner city are smoking a lesser grade of pot for more money, while the white suburban smokes a higher grade for less money. The quality also applies for speed, In REALITY there is a Chicano mafia, but they’re only the runners for the white man at the top. So who is most likely to get busted? These are some of the things Chicanos need to be aware of. The Drug Abuse Services Project is seeking alternatives to abuse treatment and expansion of channel of drug education. Sanchez suggests a therapueticcommunity directed to special circumstances such as Chicanos’ specific needs in regard to mental health and how these needs should be satisfied. Presently the Drug Abuse Services Project has expanded to various parts of Boulder County. Offices and workers can be found in Longmont, Lafayette, Broomfield and here in Boulder. “Helping people take care of their own existence is what we’re here for,’’ says Sanchez. This does not only mean treatment, but also education through personal contact and outreach with the community. In short, emphasis should be placed on Mental Health before Mental illness.