Youth program exterminatedby Joe ContrerasEl Dario has learned that funds for Project Intercept, a highly successful treatment program for minority youths involved in delinquency, will be discontinued Dec. 1, because of personality clashes, political overtones and one man’s quest for revenge. Project Intercept, which concentrated on juvenile crime prevention and correction, used a unique concept to reduce juvenile crime in the Denver area. The project sought to curtail delinquency by working in the various communities. By utilizing people from within the communities many of the communication gaps were filled. Most of the people selected had experienced many of the problems which plague youths. These people were given professional training in personal and family therapy, and along with professional psychologists combined their knowledge to provide cultural and psychological understanding between teachers, youths and parents. The services provided by the program were intensive individual and family therapy, educational diagnosis - and peer group therapy. The project has been rated as one of the most successful anticrime programs in the nation. The Project has received praise from the Denver Public Schools as well as the Police department and its chief, Art Dill, who termed the project’s work as “tremendous.” Project Intercept had received its funding through the Denver Anti-Crime Council(DACC), who received their funds from the Colorado Division of Criminal Justice (DCJ), who in turn received funds from the Regional Law Enforcement Assistance Administration (LEAA). That program is being closed by Paul Quinn, director of the DCJ. Quinn who was appointed director of the DCJ by Governor Lamm only four months ago, ordered the closing of the 3 year-old project. Quinn said his reasons for closing the program were based on a pre-audit, which uncovered “potential” funding violations. Also information given to him by DACC director Charles D. Weller led Quinn to believe the program should have been shut down a long time ago. The information provided by Weller claimed that Project Intercept had failed to adhere to the contract guidelines set by the DCJ. Weller said the project was receiving too many juvenile cases from the schools as opposed to those referred by police. He said 73 per cent of the participants were referred by the Denver Public Schools. The contract specifies that not more than 50 per cent of the youths could be referred from the schools, and at least five per cent had to be juveniles arrested for “impact crimes” of burglary, rape and assault, who were referred by the police department. Project Intercept Director Paul Knott said in an interview, that he was “set up.” Knott said Weller is trying to get revenge for criticism he made about Weller’s DACC administration before the Denver City Council last August.The city council was holding hearings to determine if the city should support any further funding of the DACC. At those hearings Knott criticized the DACC administration and the immense bureaucratic LEAA grant procedures. As a result of Knott’s testimony, Weller’s DACC staff was significantly reduced. Weller, apparently in his quest for revenge, is trying to undermine Knott at the expense of the program. Asked if he thought Weller used Paul Quinn to get back at him Knott said, “Absolutely. I think that's exactly what happened.” ’ In' response to the allegations, Weller said that Knott should not make statements which he cannot prove. But other sources told an El Diario reporter that they have memorandums which they believe will prove in court that Weller has been trying to ruin Knott and Project Intercept for some time. Knott said the reasons for terminating the project were completely unjustified. He said the people who supplied Weller and Quinn with data about the project have never inspected the program in its three-year existence. In fact, Knott said, “it was the project’s administrators who on several occasions brought out the problem of too many school referrals to the attention of the DACC for assistance.” Knott said the problem had to be corrected by the project itself, without DACC assistance. Instead, Knott said, Weller used the incident to 'influence Quinn to close the project. Paul Quinn said Knott had been warned repeatedly that hewas not in compliance with the guidelines. But Knott said he was never warned other than a letter which could be construed as a warning, but he said he did not believe that it could. Also, the fact that Quinn used a pre-audit report in his decision was strongly criticized. The auditors themselves said that it is normal procedure that no action is to be taken until the audit is complete so that they can double check their figures and sources they obtained them from. The final audit which was being conducted at the time of the interview had not found one cent unaccounted for. According to Project Intercept director Paul Knott. 90 per cent of the 105 participants were Chicanos and a majority of the projects staff were also Chicanos. All 22 staff members will be out of work and the 105 youths will be abandoned. Project Intercept, along with several other anti-crime programs, stem from former President Nixon’s “law and order” administration. Nixon vowed that the new $l6O million anticrime program would reduce crime in eight target cities. Of the eight cities, Denver was judged the most successful in crime prevention and reduction. The project was one of 25 successful projects out of a total of 104 in the eight cities. Most of the school principals with which Project Intercept was involved, have expressed that they will send letters of support to Mayor McNichols and Governor Lamm. The City Council is expected to pass a resolution urging the Project Intercept be continued.