Is mortician, St. Germain, a saint?
Former Adams County Coroner and mortician Jack St. Germain who once said he "never abused a living soul" is once again-under investigation by the state Board of Mortuary Science. This time he is charged with preparing the body of a seven-year-old Chicano boy for burial against the wishes of his parents. Mr. and Mrs. Nestor Trujillo of Westminster have charged that St. Germain refused to transfer their son Troy's body to Howard Mortuary for embalming. Instead, St. Germain embalmed the body for his own capital gain and subsequently billed the family $75 for the preparation of the boy’s body. He later released the body, but not before he took the chance to be rude and abusive to yet another Chicano family. This is not the first time St. Germain has been before the board of Mortuary Science or the first time he has conducted himself in an unprofessional manner. On April 18, 1974, St. Germain ordered the Robert Perez family to remove the bloody body of their cousin from the mortuary. Unassisted, the family removed the body using a litter borrowed from the Brighton Community Hospital, while two of St. Germain's assistants stood by looking on and laughing. After an investigation into the incident the Colorado Board of Mortuary Science placed St. Germain on probation for one year. In 1968, St. Germain was charged with embalming bodies and .releasing them for burial before sheriffs officers and district attorney’s investigators had time to complete their investigations. St. Germain has a long history of wrong doing but time and time again the Board of Mortuary Science refuses to revoke his mortician license. The board should not allow a man such as this to continually harass and mistreat people. It seems he especially enjoys tormenting Chicanos. Who in his right mind would allow a family to pick up and carry out the bleeding body of a loved one because he could not come to terms over money. St. Germain has completely neglected his responsibility to console, but instead has taken to intimidating grief stricken families. We at El Diario feel that Jack St. Germain is not fit to deal with the public, and therefore, should no longer be allowed to practice his profession. We demand that his license be revoked forever!
