An Overview of Bilingual/Bicultural Educationby Patricia Garciaby Steve Lujan“Para Los Ninos” (for the children) is an expression that ties in with the concept of bilingual/bicultural education, an alternative mean which has added a whole new dimension to our educational system. Ever since bilingual/bicultural education programs for the Spanish speaking first started in Texas in 1967, under passage of Title VH of the Elementary Education Act, others have spread throughout the Southwestern states. In the past couple of years, the government office of the Civil Rights Commission has requested help from 26 states (including Wyoming and Colorado) in seeking an estimated 1.1 million students in the school systems who were being denied the benefits of bilingual/bicultural education. Fifteen, districts in Colorado qualified for funding; many in Wyoming qualified, but only one school applied for Title VII federal funds. Hebard Elementary School, located in the capitol city Cheyenne, is the only school in the whole state that has a bilingual/bicultural program implemented, and it has come to mean a great deal to the people in the communities. Colorado in 1975 sought and won passage of a $7.8 million bilingual/bicultural bill. New Mexico and the other three Southwestern states have had their share of available funds; but what is important is that in most research done by the government on bilingual education, Wyoming is not even included in their statistics. This serves to accentuate the fact that state and federal funding for bilingual/bicultural education in Wyoming has been limited and will most likely be very slow in coming.Manuel Aguirre, the current Director of the bilingual program at Hebard school takes a very personable approach to his work. A native of Colorado, and once a high school dropout, Manuel can identify with the failure of the educational system to provide adequate attention to individual and minority students and their culture. After receiving his GED and starting college, he earned his B.A. in Psychology and was certified as an elementary teacher in Colorado. During this time he worked as a Teacher Corp intern and participated in various workshops and activities. He then worked on his masters degree in guidance and counseling at Adams State College in Alamosa, and worked as a counselor for Upward Bound. Thereafter, he began teaching psychology for the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP) and was hired as a Tutorial Coordinator. Mr. Aquirre, 29 years of age is married and has six children of his own. He is involved with other organizations such as the American G.I. Forum, SER, and Manpower. To Mr. Aguirre, involvement with these organizations is a means of expressing, “the need that we as Chicanos, Hispanics, or whatever, are unique and beautiful in our cultures to society as a whole.” Manuel has pride in his program and says it, “has been very positive.” His “open door” policy does much to encourage parental and community participation. A two-way learning process The program was first funded in 1974 and will start its second year of existence. Headstart through second grade classes are in operation, and for each successive year the program is funded a grade will be added. There are 82 Chicano, 61 Anglo-Saxon, and 3 Black students now with the program. All of the classes are very undisciplined, which is not by any means a hindrance; rather it is a necessity, if the students are going to learn at their own pace and be free to be themselves. The art and culture of Mexico, Spain, and America as well as the culture of the communities, are rich and apparent in all of the bilingual classrooms. “It’s a two-way learning process,” said Vickie Aria, one of the Headstart teachers. “I learn from the students, too.” She went on to explain that when a parent or a student uses a Spanish word she was not familiar with, she would ask what it meant, and in this sense is learning other dialects of the language, as there is much diversity throughout the states. ********** The idea of “biculturalism” is popular and is vital to bilingual programs. Some suggest however, that the basic problems in the Southwest are biculturalism, not bilingualism. Although there is not universal definition of “biculturalism” or “bilingualism,” others believe that there is a danger in developing these programs because there are contradictions between their stated goals and actual practice. The belief is that under the guise of “biculturalism,” children are programmed to use Spanish as a transitional language to learn Anglo-Saxon concepts and ideologies.The view of Chicano culture is also undefined and “social context,” in the sense that we are products of monocultural institutions. This creates a problem when it comes to buildup a curriculum for these programs, because in order to us cultural basis for direction in curriculum building, we must develop concept of culture that is useful and applicable not only to Chicanos, but to all others involved as well. . Culture is a response to all the environments we come into contact with. Our social, emotional, physical, and mental aspects oi our lifestyles. These aspects cannot be evaluated and we are fooling ourselves into believing that we have bicultural programs it we don't bring these elements into our programs. Thus we can ask how one can speak of a bicultural program when there are Chicanos Blacks and Anglos in the classroom? Whir* dialects of English and Spanish should be used? What will be the role of translations and interpretations from one language to the other? And how can we five side by side, yet retain the differences in our cultures? All these questions have yet to be answered by the bilingual programs. A . One unusually Mrs. Aris noted while talking, was that last year, the Anglos seemed to pick up the Spanish just as quickly as the Chicanitos. But she seemed to realize that the child’s improvement of his/her self-concept was a goal that needed to be concentrated on more in the future. Self-concept is made up of “an organization of images which each person has about himself in the world.” They develop over time from reflected appraisals of others around him, and they stem originally from inter-action within the family which is the first context in which the children view themselves. After the family, school plays the most decisive role in the development of self concept because children spend a good portion of the developing years in school. The child’s self images are also affected by the manner in which teachers relate to them, decide what is expected of them, and by the success they experience with subjects. Means oi attacking Because the home environment contributes to the success or failure of acculturation and language acquisition, these programs can then be utilized (when part of a broad community action effort), as a means of attacking some of the roots and sources of the problems of poverty. Many of the problems of poverty for instance, take root when a child’s potential for healthy growth, learning, meeting people, finding answers, and articulating feeling is not realized. ( The parents are the most important contributors to the chad's development. But, they too often get caught in a cycle of poverty and need opportunities to increase their ability to help their children. Some believe that if we eradicate poverty we are all alike, and by promoting differences in our cultures we are causing poverty. Contacts with parents and community advisory boards are methods to aid in better communication within the communities. “The children are positive about what’s going on because parental input is healthy,” said Mrs. Aguirre. ‘T feel I’ve had a lot of good cooperation from them.” Mr*. Aguirre is also extremely proud of his staff, and with good reason; but admits that some of the weaknesses of the program are that there are limited resources and materials and teachers often are not properly trained. Fortunately, Title VII funds do pay for classes and training for all staff members. The staff, which consists of a bilingual teacher, monolingual teacher, and a bilingual aid for each grade, deserve as much credit if not a little more than the director, for they must work and be with the energetic little monsters a good portion of the day. But they love it, and it shows in the gentleness, care, and patience that is given with each day of instruction. All subjects are taught and tested in both Spanish and English. In the first grade bilingual art period, the students drew and cut out shapes of their faces and bodies on large sheets of white paper. And in a headstart class, after the children had taken their rest period, Mrs. Aris read a short story to the children. She had no sooner finished when the children spotted a mouse in the room. The children quickly diverted their attention to the mouse. At that point Mrs. Aris whisped in her thought and smiled, then said, “well children, I was going to read you another story, but I can see you are more interested in the mouse, so we’ll wait until tomorrow.” This is only one aspect of looking at bilingual programs, but hopefully this will suffice for some sort of stimulation or motivation within you, the reader. The rest I leave to you. When thinking back on my experience of visiting the school this month, and compare it with when I was in elementary school; I cannot help asking myself if saying the pledge of allegiance is equivalent in meaning for those who speak in Espanol, as for those who speak in Ingles. To this question, I have yet to find a satisfactory answer within myself.This reporter traveled to Denver last week to investigate problems which the bilingual/ bicultural program has encountered. The program receives state and federal funds and is sponsored by the Denver Public Schools. I talked with Chicano Educator Everett Chavez concerning his role and attitude toward bilingual/bicultural programs and discovered a totally different perspective on the subject. Chavez has taught at all levels in different schools, including two alternative education programs, Metro Youth Center and Escuela Talatelolco. He has also taught at Metropolitan State College and is working toward his doctrine in History at the University of Denver. The Bilingual and Bicultural bill was designed to help linguistically and culturally different children develop their intellectual capabilities. In the past, these children have been denied equal education because of language and cultural barriers. According to the bill, children in this category who make up ten percent or more of the total school population, should have access to a Bilingual and Bicultural program.Two years ago, a court order ordered 16 Denver Public schools to implement such programs. Recent statistics show that only two schools operate a full time program. Although other schools have drawn up proposals to develop similar programs they have been awarded less monies because of invalid statistics dealing with cultural and linguistically different children. In drawing up their proposal they overlooked the cultural aspect and based their entire studies on linguistic barriers. Says Chavez, “How can the same people that denied us these programs before, implement them now?” Other problems have resulted from this new dimension in education, brought on by racist attitudes of school administrators and personnel. Not only have they denied Chicanos access to quality education, but have done their best to push young Chicanos out of school. Consequently Chicanos have been kept from attending higher institutions of education leaving a deficit of qualified Chicanos that are needed to develop such programs. To combat this problem, Chavez said, “Chicano students now in college should take the role of leadership on themselves and develop programs that will meet demands for bilingual and bicultural teachers. Presently, there are only two schools in Colorado—Greeley and Adams State—that have such programs.”This issue brought up an important point and stand which Chaves elaborated on. “What is a bilingual/bicultural program? If no program has existed in the past, there is no format for existing programs. One such program being implemented at Del Pueblo Elementary School in West Denver has three Chicano teachers. Is this right, when 80% of the school population consists of Chicanos? As it stands now, only 75 out of 5500 Denver Public School teachers are bilingual. In other words, Chicanos must demand equal numbers of Chicano administrators and teachers in relation to the Chicano population of the school area.” Politics play an important role and add to the many problems confronting the bilingual/bicultural program. “The priorities of this country during the economic crunch have resulted in educational cutbacks; leaving bilingual/bicultural programs and others without government funds to operate on.” Chavez suggests that Chicanos, both at the college and community levels, should demand bilingual/bicultural programs that will relate to Chicanos. This encompasses Chicanos teaching .Chicanos culture, past history and language. These programs should also be responsible to, and under the guidance of, boards made up of community people. In fact, the aforementioned procedure has been suggested and incorporated into the bilingual/bicultural house bill previously mentioned. Chavez stressed that college students must demand programs that will produce qualified bilingual/bicultural teachers. They must take the initiative as leaders to stand behind such bills in order for more programs to be developed. When asked what his role in the program was, Chavez, who seems a very dedicated and self motivated man, replied, “I am trying to get people to understand that just because the bilingual/bicultural program is law and carried-out because of a court order, doesn’t mean the end. It’s just the beginning. The struggle has just begun.”Manuel AguirreOne way bilingual/bicultural education further enhances self concept is by utilizing language minority teachers to reinforce the child's background and culture. Self concept is affected by interaction with teachers, and language minority teachers are sometimes best able to communicate the encouragement and understanding needed by language minority children.Fotos por Patricia Garcia y Nick Vargas-We must get rid of the notion that education is different from life, something that happens only in school. Everything that happens to us educates us, for good or for bad. To answer what makes gooa education?' we must ask, ‘what makes a good life?'" John Holt