La Senora Laura AllendeDona Laura Allende, sister of the late president of Chile, Salvador Allende, spoke about the vents that led to the Chilean coup and the performance of Unidad Popular, during Allende's short lived term, as the democratically elected president of Chile. La Senora Laura Allende was a representative of Unidad Popular in the Chilean Congress. After the overthrow of Salvador AllendeÕs government, she was imprisoned for five months, and since her release, Mrs. Allende has been traveling, educating people of the reality in Chile. El Diario includes in this issue, a translation of the most relevant points of her dissertation, given on September 25 on the Boulder campus of the University of Colorado. Companeros, gracias por el recibimiento. I want you to know that I use the word Ô companeros' because 1 feel that the struggle we are waging is not only that of Chileans, but of everyone, that is why all of us must relate to one another as Companeros. 1 want to speak to you of Chile, but especially of Unidad Popular and its performance. There are people who do not understand the process that took place in Chile. The process that took place in Chile was truly difficult, because we had to function within the frames of constitutional and legal structures. In Chile, a legal democratic government had always existed. A system that granted some freedoms but restricted others. We were very proud of this democracy. It had existed for more than sixty years and we thought that we were free. Through all these years the working class organized and grew stronger, as a consequence, their strikes and struggle as a whole Ñwas often suppressed by force of arms. This struggle gained form in 1902 and it originated in the mines. During this period, all the governments observed the same negative attitude toward the worker, especially during the term of Frei. These struggles helped the growth of the workers which they applied, organizing in political parties, such as the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the Christian Democratic Party [this last one was constituted by people from different classes of the population but its leaders were linked to the Chilean right, and which also was linked to the National Party, which counted with a working class base. ] In harmony with the workers' struggle, we formed the Party Unidad Popular, in which the Communist Party, the Socialist Party, MAPU [Christian left, faction of the Christian Democratic Party] and MIR [Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria] formed a coalition. However, MIR did not join Unidad Popular because they perceived different ideas of how to wage the struggle, but MIR supported Unidad Popular in every one of its campaigns. Unidad Popular presented its program, and with it, their support of Salvador Allende. Allende gained a relative majority of the vote, so the Parliament had to decide who was to become president. There was doubt in the Parliament that Allende was going to abide by the Constitution. But once the members of Parliament were assured by Unidad Popular, that Allende was going to pursue the changes that they proposed, through the constitution, then they voted him in. Essentially, Unidad Popular aimed at transforming the life of the workers. This was achieved by the creation of the ÔA no Social de la Economia' [Social Year of the Economy] that focused initially on expropiating national monopolies, which were supported by national and international capitol. Basically what Unidad Popular attempted was to recover Chile's natural resources, especially the mining industry and the banking system, which was also nationalized, to prevent credit from being manipulated by the few hands that had always controlled it. Unidad Popular applied a profound agrarian reform aimed at the reduction of landholdings. Prior to Unidad Popular, landholdings consisted of 80Hectrs. per owner. Unidad Popular submitted a bill to Parliament to reduce this holding to 40 Hectrs., distributing the remaining forty to the campesinado. Soon, large concentrations of campesinos emerged, with full control of the land. Little by little the people realized what Unidad Popular was doing, adding strength to the organized workers, represented by the Central Unica de Trabajadores, which had two million workers. The workers carried the program further, to the extent of administering and running their industries. They were encharged of deciding the production programs as well as the distribution of labor. The same process took place in the province, where the small industry operated. It was this level of organization that provided the workers with the tool, to successfully resist attempts by the bosses who tried to impose strikes upon them, for example, the truckers' strike, which as we know, was subsidized by the CIA, a fact that has been certified by a Congressional investigation. The Chilean youth played a major role during the government of Allende, by volunteering time to work in rural areas, in transportation and in other tasks. Only the Catholic University maintained itself aloof of these activities. The students of the Catholic University were all Christian Democrats, or belonged to the National Party. Unidad Popular offered the children of the workers with the possibility to go to the universities. We made agreements with the CUT [Central Unica de Trabajadores] to provide funds for students of scarce resources. By filtrating the children of the workers into the universities, we forsaw the possibilities of changing the existing professional structures. The lawyers, the doctors, the engineers, were traditionally opposed to these changes, more so, when Unidad Popular put them into effect. A new force entered the universities. The people had theopportunity to have professionals among its ranks. The universities, themselves, were soon transformed due to Popular input and to a law that passed, which granted the students their rights to vote along with their professors, in the selection of courses, instructors and administrative functions. The autonomy of the universities was respected in all of its forms. All of this gave the student a clear understanding of the nature of the struggle. All of these changes gave Unidad Popular a successful standing with the people. This success was manifest in the last election held at the Parliamentary level, where Unidad Popular gained many seats. This precipitated the coup. 1 want to give you a picture of what Chile was, to point out the internal conflicts that were taking place within. The economic chaos was brought forth by the rich who still controlled large sectors of the economy. Under the banner of ÒPatrio y Libertad" they formed groups, to fight the workers. The tragedy was that we continued to be a dependent nation. Even though we had . liberated our copper, we werestill forced to acquire machinery and parts from the United States. Traditionally, foreign capitol had flown into the country, as well as equipment. All of these channels were closed to Unidad Popular. In 1972, Salvador Allende came to the United Nations to talk about the situation in Chile, and to express how Chile was an object of a direct economic aggression. Allende exposed the program that I. T. T. had to overthrow his government. Despite the fact that he was applauded, the situation did not change. It has been published in all major newspapers in the United States, how the United States government, through the CIA. promoted what the CIA termed the 'Destabilization' of the Chilean government. They did this by delivering money to subsidize strikes and fomenting the hording of food by the reactionary sectors. Now we realize the degree to which we had been infiltrated by the CIA. This becomes clear by newfoundings about assassinations that took place then, specifically that of General Schneider, which at one point we thought had been perpetrated by the right, but now. it has come to light that it was done by the CIA. Some people have told me 'hat what happened in ChileÕ as good, because it is their belief that the Communists were after United States money. Salvador Allende in his ad dress to the United Nations sum that Anaconda and Kennecott in forty two years, had taker four billion dollars in profits when their initial investment was thirty million. It is important to understand that Chile has regressed fifty years in the struggle of the worker. Our agrarian reform has been totally abolished Again, contracts with American corporations are in effect. Our mineral resources are back in hands where they were before. The present government has gone as far as paying compensation to these corporations, with money that the United States gives the Junta. The gains that we had accomplished have been, once more, deliv ered along with the rest of our country, to private, local ana foreign capital, mostly to transnational corporations. These corporations have my homeland. They penetrate other countries until the people are no longer in control of their own lives. The trans-national corporations operate with the same feeling in the United States. They do not feel that their country is the United States. As an example, take General Motors. which is trying to restablish itself in Chile, despite the high unemployment that exist > there. The coup was staged in the name of democracy and liberty, words that all of us value with pride, but the youth must begin to think, what type of freedom do they want to impose on us. The struggle for the real freedom must be waged in alt nations. What has happened in Chile is a meaningful lesson, but what is happening at this time shows that they are not only contented with the wealth; they have imposed a puppet government; a government that derives its strength from thi use of armed force; a government that acts in a fascist way. Fascism must be stopped! I do not think this struggle is going to last a long time. This is a new Viet Nam and we will struggle until victory. . Laura Allende