Law students will not file grievance
“Filing a grievance with the grievance committee would be comparable to the Rockefeller Commission investigating CIA misconduct or comparable to the highest court in Rhodesia investigating racism in the South African government,'' an unidentified spokesman for the Chicano Law Student Association said in reply to Dean Courtland Peterson’s advice concerning reversing the order in which the legal aid clinic will not represent legally neither the UFW, the FLTF, nor “any individual member of either group in either civil or a criminal matter arising out of the individual's activities on behalf of those groups." According to the Chicano Law Student Association, the “policy was adopted, presumably by Dean Peterson and Murray Richtel, Director of the Legal Aid Clinic, that forbade the opening of any more Boycott-related cases in the Clinic was issued shortly after the final injunction was issued concerning a restraining order issued against the UFW and one hundred supporters restricting picketing on the property of Pudlik’s liquor store. Redak and Johnson, Clinic Staff attorneys, were allowed to enter the case as a clinic case, in which Judge Dana modified or dissolved the restraining order. Pudlik's eventually, “reluctantly, removed Gallo wines from its shelves." “The adoption of this policy to our knowledge, are that I. the handling of such cases is not educational; 2. it is a drain on Clinic resources; 3. the political heat for the Clinic might not be of sufficient intensity to jeopardize its survival; and 4. the United Farmworkers are not indigent, so the Clinic cannot represent them or their supporters," the Chicano Student Association pointed out in a memorandum dated June 13, 1975. Accuse dean In connection with the same case the Chicano Law students accused the dean of the University of Colorado Law School, Peterson, of “a serious breech of ethics" in a news conference Monday, June 23.
“This Clinic policy was communicated by Richtel or Dean Peterson (or both) to one Lipsky, the Gallo distributer for this area, with no notice or prior consultation with student or staff attorneys, or the clients. Radio station KBOL picked it up and it later got into the press in various forms. The gist of the news story was that the Clinic “will base further decisions on whether or not indigent individuals can expect financial assistance from the group they are representing . . . the Chavez fund-raising dinner "raises the question whether legal aid is advancing the cause of a non-indigent group . . . which may bring an appearance of impropriety, taboo under the canons of ethics." Daily Camera. The policy can be criticized on several grounds. Chief among them are: (1) It is the result of bad Clinic decision making process; (2) it is incorrect as policy; (3) it mis-states applicable ethical canons; and (4) it represents a serious breach of ethics, said Chicano Law students. The policy is wrong. On its face, it seems that a legal aid program seeking to aid indigents with legal problems would be very slow to adopt a blanket policy refusing services to the most underprivileged group in this society. The decision has several factors which should be dealt with separately. Dean says . . . According to the dean “It would be highly improper for the LADP to become a participant in any particular political or economic movement or cause, however meritorius. Instead it must preserve its role as independent counsel. For that reason, as well as the limitations on the educational values offered by such an arrangement, it would be improper for the LADP to accept the role of regular or "house" counsel to any group with respect to potential future litigation. In the past the LADP has rarely represented organizations, even where organized as not-for-profit
corporations, and for the past several years has consistently followed the practice of declining to represent any other than individual clients.
It has. for example, declined to represent the Boulder Tenants Union, as such, although its success in some of the cases it takes does benefit tenants as a group. In the recent Pudlik matter the LADP did not represent the UFW. but did represent several indigent individuals, and it is fair to assume that this representation provided an indirect benefit to the UFW cause. I am satisfied from my inquiries into the matter that it was quite appropriate for the LADP to represent these individual clients in this case. However. I am equally persuaded that it would be improper for the LADP to adopt any policy offering automatic representation in any future case to persons who wish to participate in the UFW campaign of boycotts against other liquor stores which sell Gallo wines. To do so would provide a direct benefit to the UFW. relieving it of any necessity of providing legal counsel for persons engaged in its cause.
Chicano law students say . . . For one. Legal Aid constantly represents individuals whose personal interests may coincide with larger groups. Any legal case, of course, has larger ramifications if it results in a written decision. For example, the Clinic represented an indigent out-of-state student in a tuition case, and won a Supreme Court victory which gained economic benefits for ail out-of-state students (indigent and non-indigent alike). The Clinic often sues the Welfare Department to change its regulations, suits which, if won, gain economic benefits for whole groups of people. Second, there is no Clinic policy against representation of groups per se. The Clinic has, in the past, represented groups, for example, like the Boulder Welfare Mothers Organization (a group formed by a law student, by the way). LADP does not, however, represent every indigent group
that asks. The Board of Directors must authorize representation of groups, a protective policy set-up to guard against the requests of any two penniless people who band together and want free representation to bring groundless suits. So, the precedents allow Clinic representation of groups, and the only question is: "Is this group one Legal Aid should represent in this kind of issue?** This is properly a question for the Board of Directors and should be referred there, for discussion and vote. Excluding types like Spiro Agnew, there is broad majoritarian support for the proposition that representation of groups is proper, in fact desirable, activity for Legal Aid program,” Law students say. The dean also claims in a memorandum . . - It now seems apparent that the UFW has sufficient financial resources to engage counsel it if choses to do so.
prove Professor Richtel's announced policy of declining to accept any such cases on an automatic basis simply because an individual person applying for representation can make a case for indigency. Furthermore, the question of propriety in the acceptance of cases is not simply a matter of choice for the LADP. The court practice rule which permits the Clinic to function, with student representation of clients in judicial proceedings, presupposes that the clients in question arc poor persons, without access to resources which would finance adequate representation. In any future boycott cases it appears that the only reason that such persons may be without adequate
resources is that the UFW chooses to withhold support, notwithstanding action by the individuals in question in its behalf. That is a hair which I am not willing to split and it has nothing to do with the UFW or the merits or demerits of its cause. The same is and will be true of any other organization which looks to automatic representation from our Clinic as one of its economic resources in pressing its point of view. I therefore not only support but wholly approve Professor Richtel's decision not to accept any more of the boycott cases without his personal review of the question on an individualized basis.”
