Cuban leader refused visa
NEW YORK . . . July 3 department of State refusal to grant a visa to Cuban leader Dr. Nelba Hernandez was strongly denounced as unconstitutional by i group of prominent lawyers, at in emergency press conference, here, yesterday. The lawyers, all with a long history of involvement in US civil rights struggles, vowed to join the committee for July 26th to fight he Department of State decision with every legal and political acion they can. The Committee for July 26th invited Dr. Hernandez to visit the US, to deliver the keynote address at the annual July 26th celebrations in New York, “A People’s Salute to Cuba,” which will take place at Manhattan Center on July 25th. The invitation to Dr. Hernandez was signed, among others, by Jane Fonda, Dr. June Jackson Christmas, Dr. Benjamin Spock, Dr. Quentin Young and lawyers Leonard Boudin and Lennox Hinds. Michael Ratner, attorney for the Committee for July 26th, speaking at the press conference Wednesday, explained that under the US Immigration and Naturalization Act, Communist Party members are excluded from entering the country, unless a waiver is granted by both the Secretary of State and the Attorney General. Dr. Hernandez is a member of the Communist Party of Cuba. Ratner filed for a waiver with the Department of State after Dr. Hernandez applied for her visa, in Jamaica, last June 19th. The Department of State told Ratner, on Tuesday, that although exceptions had been made in the past, it would not grant a waiver to Dr. Hernandez because "she is coming to the United States for a political reason, to give a political speech." The decision* Ratner told reporters, “is a violation of the people of the US’s First Amendment rights to hear Dr. Hernandez." He added that, "At this point, we have decided to take every legal and political action that we can, to fight this exclusion based on political reasons." Leonard Boudin, Chief Counsel of the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee, told the press that Dr. Hernandez’ case was a “clear cut situation of whether, on the basis of political considerations created by the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952, the US government has the power to keep somebody out of the country because it does not like his or her political views." He added that this specific issue, oddly enough in our long history, "has never been decided by the Supreme Court"
"We are not dealing here with the rights of a Cuban to express her views on US soil," he stressed, "we are dealing with the right of Americans to hear her." Lennox Hinds, Executive Director of the National Conference of Black Lawyers (NCBL), pledged the resource of "all our 800 lawyers throughout the country, to do whatever is necessary to force the US Department of State to lift the restriction on Dr. Hernandez' visit" Stressing the "groundswell of support that exists in the US for the kind of revolutionary changes that are going on in Cuba," Hinds said that the US government, by making this and previous decisions of this kind, "is attempting to muzzle and to shield the kinds of developments that are going on in Cuba." The US government, he added, "is particularly concerned about Black and Third World communities in the US who could in fact see, in Cuba, models for change within this country." A spokesperson for the Committee for July 26th pointed out that, in spite of the fact that over 70% of the people in the US oppose the 15-year US government blockade against Cuba, the government has denied this visa "persisting in its stubborn policy against that country." The Committee vowed to "fight until the end to insure that our right to hear Dr. Hernandez is respected by the US government" Other lawyers present at the press conference committed their efforts to bring Dr. Hernandez to the US. Among them were Stanley Faulkner, World Peace Council; Arthur Kinoy, President of Law, Rutgers Law School; William Kunstler, Center for Constitutional Rights and Hal Mayerson. National Lawyers Guild. The press conference was adjourned with a call to all US citizens to defend their right to hear Dr. Hernandez and immediately contact Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and Attorney General Edward Levi demanding that a non-restrictive travel and speaking visa be granted to her. Telegrams and letters should be sent and telephone calls made to: Henry Kissinger, US Department of State, Washington, D.C. 20520, Telephone: (202) 6554000; and: Attorney General Edward Levi, 10 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20530, Telephone: (202) 7378200
