El Diario ProfileDr. Jesus Luna Director of Chicano studiesDr. Jesus Luna has been appointed as the new Chicano studies director at the University of Colorado in Boulder. Jesus “Chuy” Luna, 31, received his B.A. in History, Pan American College, 1967 and a Ph. D., North Texas University, 1973. He is currently trying to establish a committee consisting of seven Chicano students, seven faculty members, and seven community members to help support a Chicano studies program. i He believes we need more Chicano teachers into the faculty staff of the University of Colorado at Boulder. His wish is to see that we not only have a program for Chicanos but also a school of Chicanos. There is one thing Luna would like to clarify, Chicano studies is not limited to Chicanos only, but to anyone who is interested in knowing our history and our present contributions, and to become aware of the Chicano problems he has faced and will counter with today. One faculty member is Manuel O. Naranjo, who was one of the first U.M.A.S. Spanish instructors in the fall of 1969 and spring of 1970. He is currently at the University of Colorado as a lecturer of Spanish, as well as being Luna’s faculty assistant. Manuel has a very positive outlook on the committee with the leadership of Luna, as he states, “Dr. Luna is very concerned about the department and I am sure that under his guidance, provided of course that he is given the cooperation which he needs, the program will be able to grow and improve so it can become a viable part of the University and community. I am very much impressed with the abilities of Dr. Luna as a director of the program.”Time will tell if the program and Jesus will accomplish their goals, but with the help of our Raza we can accomplish beyond that. He taught U.S. History at East Texas State University, lectured on the history of Mexico at North Texas State University, and in addition, Dr. Luna also presented a workshop on the “teaching of the Chicano Experience” at Dos Palos Junior High School. He has had published Jesus Luna’s Abe Lincoln Story, Chicano: The Evolution of People. Involved in many community affairs, he also organized Los Chicano Club. He was chairman of a fund raising committee entitled OPERACION NAVIDAD (Operation Christmas) to help raise funds for the needy people in Fresno and give a Christmas basket.Dr. Jesus Luna