Elections in CaliforniaUFW ahead of TeamstersDespite some innaccurate media reports to the contrary, the UFW is far ahead of the Teamsters in the elections being held in California under the state’s new farm labor law. As of this writing, the results showed UFW with 13,757 to 8,167 for the Temos and many of their votes are subject to change pending court hearings on illegal practices. Further, the UFW has won elections at over 30 ranches formerly controlled by the Teamsters, where the workers apparently had a bellyful of back door contracts and racism. But at every ranch with a UFW contract, we have been re-certified by wide margins. In fact, the Temos could only muster enough support to challenge us at just one UFW ranch—lnter Harvest, where they were soundly thrashed 1167 to 28! These results should lay to rest forever the Teamsters’ dreary line that the workers were dissatisfied with the UFW’s enforcement of their contracts. These victories are being won despite a massive campaign of terror and intimidation waged by the growers and Teamsters. Worse even than the infamous Posse Comitatus and similar vigilante squads attacking our people has been the inaction of the Agricultural Board instituted to oversee the elections. The current events in California have led many groups to reinterate their support for the UFW’s boycotts. At a press conference last month, such was the position of the Colorado Labor Council, The Denver Area Labor Federation, the Independent Drivers Association (Yellow Cab), Amalgamated Clothing Workers, Teachers Union, and Butcher Workmen. Nationally, the AFL-CIO has sent a number of organizers, including our good friend Jay Dee Patrick, to help in the elections campaign. Another endorsement was issued recently by the Catholic Church’s Committee on the Spanish Speaking.Faced with flagrant violations—from growers padding payroll lists of eligible voters with foremen, supervisors, labor contractors, relatives, deceased workers and even hired goons (like at Gallo), to closing the polls early as to conveniently exclude whole crews of UFW sympathizers from voting (Hanson ranch), and dozens more, the board has refused to prosecute. The result has been that thousands of farmworkers haveagain been denied their legal rights. Our response has been to organize a massive nationwide campaign to appeal to Governor Brown to fire Walter Kintz, chief counsel of the board. The pressure we have mounted has finally forced the board to act, as the article describes. They will meet in the next few weeks to resolve some of the disputes which have occurred, particularly that the companies havechallenged the votes of every single striker (and thus, their votes have not yet counted in any election) despite the law which clearly grants them this right. When this issue is resolved, the outcomes of many elections will be affected (for instance, at Gallo —with the striker's votes counting we won handily.) Many of the tainted elections will be re-run, although some will have to wait until next year. If the workers don’t have to fear for their safety by voting UFW, you can bet that we’ll increase our victories significantly. These events are all the more reason to maintain the boycott. By our pressure we can insure that where the UFW has been certified, the growers will bargain and sign a contract. This can also serve as notice to the board that the eyes of the people are on them, and that we simply expect them to enforce the law so that the workers can be afforded the rights that they so deeply deserve.