Humane treatment for the insane has roots in SpainEditor's Note: An exerpt of a keynote address delivered by Floyd Martinez, Ph.D., Executive Director of the Mental Health Center of Boulder bounty at the 1975 Annual Colorado Mental Health Conference held at Snowmass, Colorado in September. Why is the mental health technology we employ largely restricted to that perspective, to those approaches whose historical roots are in Northern and Eastern Europe? Is it that British Empiricism or German Idealism were the only streams of thought n the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries available to form the basis of American psychiatry and psychology? Why do we say that he humanitarian movement in mental health began with Pinel in Prance in 1792? Is it really true that what we know today as social work traces its beginnings to a “friendly visitor’’ named Mary Richmond in NYC at the turn of this century? Didn’t the ancestors of the Chicano make any contributions to that early history of the mental health disciplines? Don’t we own any of that? Of course our ancestors made contributions, but somehow the history recounted in U.S. undergraduate and graduate curricula omits them. Let’s examine for a moment, what some of those forgotten contributions are: The beginning of humane treatment for the insane did not occur in England or Germany or with Pinel in France; it occurred in Spain as early as the Fifteenth Century. Bassoe, in an article entitled, “Spain as the Cradle of Psychiatry,’’ examines the monumental 3trides that Spain made in the treatment of mental illness with the construction of hospitals specifically for the treatment of mental illness. He writes, “The Cradle of Psychiatry was in Spain,...earlier than other nations the Spaniards constructed convenient and appropriate buildings, the first real hospitals for the insane in the world.’’ The first hospital was built in 1409 in Valencia, followed by one in Sevilla in 1436, 1456 in Palma, 1480 in Toledo and 1527 in Granada. In the fertile intellectual climate of Fifteenth Century Spain, considerable writing on insanity occurred. Two prolific scholars were Juan De Dios Huarte Y Navarro who wrote on memory and intelligence, and on the brain as the seat of insanity; and Juan Luis Vives who wrote on many topics including a treatise on what today amounts to psychological association or the association of ideas. Zilboorg, in his book on The History of Medical Psychology states, “Vives was not only the father of modern, empirical psychology, but the true forerunner of the dynamic psychology of the Twentieth Century.” Zilboorg also states that Vives conceptualized many of what today are basic principles in social work including another treatise on community organization. Even in a brief examination of the extraordinary contributions of Fifteenth and Sixteenth Century Spain to the study of behavior, I would be remiss if I did not mention the greatest observer of human behavior: The man who in my opinion was paralleled only by the observational genius of Sigmund Freud several centuries later: I’m speaking, of course, of Miguel de Cervantes. In Don Quixote, Cervantes masterfully personifies the complicated and tragic world of the psychotic. He skillfully guides us through the distorted perceptions of his hero; his lofty ideals, his propensity to dream the impossible dream, his willingness to fight the unbeatable foe, his inability to live a life that is incongruous with his world. In the original Cervantes state, “En efecto, rematado ya su juicio, vino a dar en el mas extrano pensamiento que jamas dio loco en el mundo...le paracio necesario hacerse caballero andente y irse por todo el mundo con sus armas y caballo a buscar aventuras... Limpias pues, sus armas...se dio a entender que no le falteba otra cosa sino buscar una dama de quien enamorarse; porque el caballero andante sin amores era arbol sin hojas y sin fruta, y cuerpo sin alma.” (Ernest Hemingway just turned over in his grave)! While there is ample evidence showing that Spain was indeed the cradle of modern psychology and psychiatry, and perhaps social work, it is also evident that it was left to other countries to nurture he new-born disciplines. With the publication of the Witch Hammer by Johann Sprenger and Henrich Kraemer, two German authors who professed the existence of witches and offered ways of identifying them, Spain began her plunge into the scientific and moral darkness of the inquisition. One of the tragedies of that period was that the insane were among the most suspect, and humane treatment perished. Let us leave Spain, then, and turn to our own hemisphere and examine briefly the state of the art in Mexico, the other half of the Chicano’s Spanish-Indian heritage. At about the same time that Spain reached her intellectual pinnacle of the Fifteenth and early Sixteenth Centuries, the natives of Mexico developed the last great aboriginal civilization of the Western hemisphere. By the middle of the Fourteenth Century the Aztecs had built the City of Tenochititlan near present day Mexico City. By assimilitating other tribal groups along with the technology of previous civilizations—namely the extraordinary developments of the Mayas—the Aztec Empire became a marvel of social organization and a milestone in technical achievement. Among their achievements was a complex system for treating behavioral disorders—some of that system was alarmingly similar to our own. Guido Balsasso, in an article entitled, “The History of Psychiatry in Mexico” states that their conceptualization of psychic structure, ego formation and dream interpretation were very similar to those of Sigmund Freud. I guess I should say, Freud’s concepts are similar to those of the Aztecs! One of the most fascinating features of Aztec psychiatry were the Teixtomani, a group of specialists who were trained for about ten years in a kind of “Graduate School” called Calmecac. Besides their mastery of Aztec religion, the Teixtomani studied an extremely well developed psychopharmacology and they were trained to differentiate among such diagnostic groups as manics, schizophrenics, depressives and psychopaths. They also studied hypnosis and trephination. An interesting switch was that the therapist often took psychotrophic drugs because they would give him expanded insights for treating his patients! Keep in mind that these were the same people that would sacrifice as many as 20,000 people at one time to the[lgods—every aspect of Aztec society was associated with their religion, including their psychiatry. Some of their patients were seen as recipients of special communications from the gods and were given very special treatment. After the conquest of Mexico by Heman Cortez between 1519 and 1523 there began a very interesting blending process of the folk psychiatry of the Aztecs and the rational-academic variety from Europe. Both systems persisted more or less simultaneously such that a major dianostic problem was to determine whether a disease was natural or supernatural, because that would dictate the type of specialist needed —a physician if natural, a curandero if supernatural; and the priests were somewhere in the middle! The point to be made here is that many aspects of the Aztec system of treatment have persisted until the present time. Many of the Remedios, Curas and Curanderismo itself are traceable to aboriginal Mexico. The humanitarian influence of Spain in Mexico is exemplified by the fact that a hospital for the treatment of the insane was built in Mexico City in 1566—the first in the hemisphere. Most of us were taught that the first one was in Williamsburg, Va. in 1773. In the succeeding three centuries, Spanish-Mexico maintained a progressive tradition in medicine and psychiatry —not so much in far-reaching scientific achievements, but in the organization and regulation of the service delivery process. For example, as early as 1570 the protomedicato system was established, which in many ways was quite similar to our system of peer review. It is interesting to note, however, that no schools of thought developed in Mexico except for such systems as curanderismo. Scientific developments were highly individualized achievements that did not develop broad academic constituencies or followers. We must recall that between 1540 and 1700 Mexico was preoccupied with the exploration of New Spain, what is now the Southwestern United States, and gold and silver took priority over psychiatry! The individualistic tradition of the Mexico and Latin American Scholar persisted into the Nineteenth and early Twentieth Centuries. In the mental health disciplines we find scientists like Ingenieros in Argentina, Buendia in Columbia, Delgado in Peru and Pacheco and Alarcon in Mexico making monumental contributions to the literature, but to a literature that fell on deaf ears among U.S. scholars because those works were written in Spanish and the languages of the scholar have traditionally been English, French and German. It was not until the Twentieth Century that a Spanish-speaking scientist was recognized in the U.S. as a “milestone” contributor to the knowledge base we use in mental health. That was Santiago Ramon y Cajal. Ramon y Cajal, who was actually a Spaniard, singlehandedly revolutionized the study of the nervous system between 1900 and 1932. Among Ramon y Cajal’s achievements were the first accurate descriptions of the structure and function of the neuron; he also perfected the chrome-silver staining technique for preparing slides for the microscope. He received the Moscow Prize in anatomy in 1900; the Helmholtz Medal in 1905, and the Nobel Prize in 1906. The highesthonor was given in 1932 when the Spanish government approved the construction of a large biological research center in Madrid to be named 4 ‘lnstitute Cajal. ’ ’ At the entrance to the institute there is an inscription that reads: A Castilla y Aragon nuevo mundo dio colon; A Castilla y Aragon mundo entero dio Ramon. In our own time, Chicano and other Spanish-speaking scholars, administrators, services providers and consumers are struggling to be heard above the roar of indifference and prejudice. The potential contributions to be made today to the technological base of mental health are great. There will be sessions on such cultural issues as curanderismo and machismo there will be sessions on clinical issues such as the identity crisis of the Chicano adolescent, play therapy with Chicano children, services for the aged; and there will be discussions of administrative issues such as accountability, free-standing Chicano programs, and issues in conflict resolution.