Open letter to Colorado State Penitentiary
January 13, 1975 Mr. Alex Wilson, Warden Colorado State Penitentiary Canon City, Colorado 81212 Dear Mr. Wilson: 1 am writing this letter concerning discussions I have recently had with members of your newly elected inmate council, as part of a legislative visitation by members of the Freshmen Democratic State Representative Delegation. The visitation was made on January 4. 1975, and at first I thought I could wait until the 50th General Assembly was well under way before I approached you with the following concerns. However, 1 believe that these concerns are of such importance that it has necessitated this correspondence. I am requesting from you formation relative to the following areas; 1. GOOD TIME POLICY: From what I can gather, implementation of this policy would encourage inmates onto the road to rehabilitation. In our discussion with you, it was pointed out that your office has been authorized since 1967 to initiate this reward policy for inmates who have demonstrated a willingness to cooperate with your administration. My concern here is for your security officers, as well as for the inmates. It would seem to me that inmates who are attempting to cooperate should be differentiated from those who may have disruptive tendencies. Immediate implementation of this policy is mandated by what I consider the degree of tension demonstrated on our visit. If there is some reason why your administration believes that this policy cannot be implemented, i would like to be advised. 2. COMMUNICATION: The inmate council system to me seems to be an excellent vehicle to communicate administrative decisions, and to air grievances and concerns of
inmates. The fact that your administration allowed elections for an inmate council, sanctions this avenue for communication. This structure is dependent on your administration staffs willingness to utilize this system. In our visit with the inmate council, it was pointed out that they had been elected in early December, and yet at the time of our visit, your Associate Warden, Bill Wilson, had not met with them as a group during that period. The fact that a man/woman is incarcerated to me is not an indication that he or she has lost all rights. The right to be heard is inherent in every human being, and I firmly believe the inmates I met with can provide that dialogue that is essential. 3. PHONE PRIVILEGES: The information that was given to us, was that there are designated hours that inmates can utilize the phone service. This seems to be reasonable administratively, however, my information is that there is only one phone for every four hundred inmates. If the problem of installation of additional phones rests with Mountain Bell, let us together seek such additional telephones. If administratively, you do not deem it essential to install additional phones, I would like to hear such rationale. 4. CANTEEN PRIVILEGES: The days for canteen privileges have been cut back. This according to the inmates creates a system where inmates must purchase in quantity, and increases the possibility for theft by other inmates of the goods purchased. They requested that the Canteen be open more as a solution to this problem. They also indicated that the administration allowed them
over-all selection of goods at the Canteen leaves much to be desired. 5. READING MATERIAL: It is my understanding that there is a list of approved literature and a list that is considered improper. I would like to see these lists if they exist and for what reason such listing exists. 6. REINSTITUTION OF CHIPS FOR MONEY: I „ understand that the chips were done away with us as a measure to deal with the drug flow. Inmates related that they did not feel that this was the case, and an inmate survey that I glanced through indicated unanimity for reinstitution of this process of purchasing goods. The above areas represent some of the concern related to us on our visit. I realize that all aspects of the complex problems at Canon City Penitentiary cannot be dealt with in a two hour visit. We did not have time to talk with the security officers to the extent I would have liked to. Qthers in our delegation did spend time with them, and I intend to devote time to their areas of concern. I would also like to spend some time discussing with you the problems facing your administration. While 1 can recognize that you are working with an antiquated facility, and one which must cause numerous problems, there are those housekeeping measures that I have pointed out in this correspondence that I feel that are important to the inmates, that create only minimal physical difficulties. I believe that one of the answers to dealing with the over-all picture at Canon City Penitentiary is decentralization of the facility, and I fully intend to support those measures that point in that direction. I look forward to your response at your earliest possible convenience. Respectfully. Richard Castro State Representative
Rep. Richard Castro Denver
Rep. Polly Baca Barragan Denver, and daughter, Monica.
Rep. Leo Lucero Pueblo
