EDITORIAL'We are losing many good leaders every semester at this University. Academic and financial aid problems are not the causes of many of these losses, the problem is they are overworked. We are pushing our leaders out of activities and many times out of school. We demand them to keep the student organizations and activities going for us. We demand they help us when we need help, but do we help them when they cry out for help? It is not unusual to see someone helping in every student activity possible one semester and never around the next. In trying to keep activities going for the other Chicanos on campus, they too often are left single-handedly organizing and carrying through with these activities, because no one else would help. We are pushing too many valuable people away from their studies and away from us. With 720 students Chicanos on this campus it doesn’t seem right that only a few Chicanos have the time or momentum or maybe better yet the dedication to make sure things happen here, on •campus. It’s the same people helping at the dances, dinners, etc. They create panels to inform the students what is happening in the real world, outside their own little world of college and dorm life, and not more than a handful show up. Not more than 30 students attended the informational panel on the Grand Jury and Veronica Vigil. Not more than 30 students even bothered to find out, from Veronica’s lawyers, how the Grand Jury has misused one of our Chicanas. She attended classes here. She helped freshmen entering the University for the first time, when she was an English Teaching Assistant. She helped in many ways, and now she is in need of help and few bother to listen. Do not abandon those caught up in the never ending spider’s web with too many demands pulling at them. Help them. It is true UMAS was begun by only eight Chicanos, only a handful of students, but more than that are needed to keep this program going, to move it somewhere. This program is huge, huge enough to create more and better activities than those that are being sustained at this time. Get involved in with something beside yourself. Contact someone in the following list of Chicano student organizations and volunteer some time. UMAS student organization 492-6572 Farm Labor Task Force • Aden Irlando 492-6572 Mexican American Correctional Helping Organization Pat Ruiz 492-6571 Aztfan Coors Boycott Committee Juan “Freddie” Trujillo 492-6572 National Chicano Health Organization Gene Tafoya 492-6175| Chicano Business Student Association Rick Gallegos 492-6181 Chicano Law Students Flo Hernandez 492-8845 El Diario Glorio Rubio, Patty Garcia 492-8836 Veronica Vigil Defense Committee Nick Avila 492-6572 UMAS Activities Committee JoAnn Sisneros 492-6572El Diario al la gente is an independent newspaper and magazine published by Chicano students at the University of Colorado at Boulder. We publish our newspaper monthly during the school year, with a magazine at the end of the semester. The editorial content does not necessarily reflect the views of any Chicano organizations on campus. Our office is in the University Memorial Center, Room 416, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, 80309. We can be contacted at 492-8836El Diario Staff Co-Editors Gloria Rubio Patty'S arcia Leonard Maeetas Ken Newton Manuel Arcadia Miguel Garcia Alvin Herrera Wkmrm MamanereeSaludes: Sincereness, gratefullness, and gracias don’t even begin to express how thankful and gracious I am. On November 7th and November 9th benefits were held in Lafayette and Boulder on my behalf. With due respect I graciously thank the following people, for without their assistance, time and effort, the benefits would not have been possible. The Aguila Band The Lafayette Community The Boulder Community The Bilingual Bicultural Commission of St. Thomas Aquinas (The Dinner) UMAS UMAS-EOP Lafayette Dance Committee The Ballet Folklorico The Alegre Group I inject without the support the support letters and the time of many “wonderful” people, my time in jail would be much more atrocious. Mil Gracias. Con Fe De La Carcel, / Veronica