Valdez, others serve in legislature
By Patricia Garcia El Diario Staff
The first Chicano to serve as Speaker of the House of Representatives in Colorado was sworn into the 50th General Assembly Wednesday. January 8. The newly elected speaker, Ruben Valdez, a third-term Democrat from Denver, is one of five Chicanos serving in the Colorado Legislature. Valdez sees this session as being "a historic session, because of the rapid change that we see before us. He cited a tremendous need for many services and said that through hope and enthusiasm, “the two parties can work together, where neither party is the loser, and the people in Colorado the winner."
Valdez made his first mistake Wednesday, when he announced “the legislature is ready". This drew a chuckle from the audience when they realized that he had failed to follow normal procedure, which requires a statement to be put in the form of a motion. Because Valdez wanted to see the first House Bills put on the floor w/in a week, & no later than two weeks, he moved to schedule committee meetings during the morning hours. Rep. Sandy Arnold, (R-Boulder) commended Valdez’s action in speeding up the legislative process. The other five Chicanos now serving terms include: Polly (Baca) Barragan. (D-Denver), Rep. 34th District; Richard Castro, (D-Denver), Rep. 6th district; Roger Cisneros, (D-Denver), Sen. 4th district; Leo Lucero, (D-Pueblo), Rep. 42nd district; and Paul Sandoval, (D-Denver), Sen. 2nd district. Valdez is serving the sth district. In January of last year, Valdez was successful in proposing a S 3 million appropriation to set up a bilingual teaching program. The Bilingual and Bicultural Education Act was passed with one negative vote. The bill requires the State Board of Education to work out rules and regulations for local programs and to allocate funds.
In addition to being the House speaker, Valdez will serve as a member on two permanent committees: the Rules Committee and the House Services Committee. Polly (Baca) Barragan, vice chairman of the Rules Committee, and a member on the Finance, and Business Affairs and Labor Committees, believes that the present taxation system is “welfare for the rich." The first goal. Rep. Barragan explained, would "be to eliminate the tax loopholes that benefit the rich." She said that progress could not come about in this kind of tax system. In addition, she supports the bilingual and bicultural bill, as well as aid to migrant farmworkers. While assigned as chairman on the Education Committee, Leo Lucero will also push for the bilingual-bicultural bill. “It is possible that the bill may be put on the floor in three weeks for allocation of funds", said Lucero. According to the Rocky Mountain News, in an article dated Jan. 13, Lucero plans to support a reading improvement program. It stated that last year there was a 40 per cent increase in the number of college entrants who need remedial reading skills, especially among disadvantaged, slow learners and minorities. Lucero will also serve on the Game, Fish, and Parks Committee.
Richard Castro, who is assigned to the Health, Environment, Welfare and Institutions Committee, seems to have placed much emphasis upon a bill that concerns inmates at the Colorado State Penitentiary. This bill stresses the necessity to establish a stronger Inmate Council at the Colo. State Penitentiary. Castro will also serve on the Transportation and Energy Committee. Sen. Roger Cisneros and Sen. Paul Sandoval were not available for comment Wednesday.
Rule Three states that students are expected to refrain from disorderly conduct on college-owned property or at college functions. “Nothing was disorderly, nothing was indecent or obscene," said Ms. Gallegos. "When the streakers went running through and interrupted classes, no action was taken against them." Rule Four says that students are expected to observe rules and regulations as set forth in specific college facilities. “They do not specify any rules or regulations that were set forth," said Patricia. "We did not break any rules or regulations, except these that they pointed out. whereby they have no sufficient evidence to back up the accusations." Students arc expected to refrain from intentional obstruction, disruption, or interference of teaching, research, disciplinary proceedings, etc., according to Rule Five. Patricia explained that the demonstration was held during lunch, and that no classes or offices were disrupted. One class was being held in a building across campus, but members of the class admitted that the chanting could barely be heard. Rule Six says that students are expected to refrain from physical abuse or intimidation of any persons on college-owned or controlled property etc. The CSB claims that Mary Brooks, President Marvels' secretary, became ill because the demonstrators were chanting "Go home, Mary Brooks, when actually they were saying, "Give us back our books." Afterwards the students talked with Mary Brooks. She told them that the demonstration had nothing to do with her going home. She had been sick earlier in the day. Ms. Gallegos reiterated that all four students had been put on probation for the demonstration that occurred in March of‘73. She went on to explain that CSB had changed the rule book during the summer. Before, students could appeal probation. Now they cannot.
