Beer baron conflicts with protestorsThe Denver County Young Republicans presented their “First Annual Man-Of-The-Year Award” to conservative beer baron Joseph Coors last Wednesday in the glittering splendor of the Phipps Mansion Tennis House in Denver. Oddly enough, the Republican party-goers were not talking about the award ceremony as they sipped cocktails and ate hors de ouvres. Most could not even say why Coors was selected other than that he “is a fine man,” though the vote for the man was unanimous. Instead, the pre-award ceremony chatter was about the demonstration going on outside. About 50 demonstrators, mostly members of the Atzlan Boycott Coors Committee, were picketing the circular driveway in front of the tennis house. A few women said they were afraid the protestors might attack lone women, and one man was worried that his car would be vandalized. Another man said he wished he had brought his gun. Outside, with the exception of noice caused by slogan-shout-ing and whistle-blowing, the picket proceeded in a peaceful and orderly manner. And, probably to the disappointment of the prejudiced party-goers, no women were raped and no hubcaps were stolen. Coors has long been known as an enemy of minorities and the Left. His company has been convicted numerous times with discriminatory employment practices and has firmly refused to accept any affirmative action plans. As a University regent, Coors opposed student freedoms, promoted restrictive policies against the rights of women students and spearheaded the drive against Students for A Democratic Society. (SDS was a radical, anti-war organization that was eventually kicked off campus by the regents.) Coors is also known for his anti-union practices. Thirteen unions have been on continuous strike against his brewery since 1968. Strikebreakers have been used to bust all those unions. In turn, the unorganized workers have been exploited by not being paid overtime and not receiving other benefits. In addition, Coors attempted to break United Farm Worker of America strikes by transporting non-union grapes in Coors trucks. Environmentalists are another group at odds with Coors. Though the beer company says it is concerned about the environment and has set up a recycling program as well as developing a can without removable tabs, the company has also vowed to fight the efforts of Sensible Citizens Against Throwaways to ban all non-re-turnable beverage containers. SCAT feels Coors’ new can innovation was an economic move rather than a moral one. For all these reasons, Chicano organizations have been boycotting Coors beer since 1967. At Wednesday’s reception. Coors’ only comments were that he did not know why the demonstration had been set up and that he felt the protest was “rather ridiculous.” In his acceptance speech, the only reference made to the picket was a gratuitous remark: “As you can see, I am a controversial figure.” Everyone laughed. He urged the Young Republicans to rebuild the party and bring it up from the “doldrums” it is currently in. The Republicans should stay away from “liberals” like Nelson Rockefeller and Jacob Javits, Coors said. They don’t stand for the “strong moral principles” needed to revive the party, he said. By the time his short speech was over, eight of Denver’s finest had cleared the demonstrators out of the driveway and sent them on their way home. Nonetheless, the protesters felt they had made their point and left peacefully. For more information, about Coors and boycott, contact Juan “Freddy” Trujillo through the UMAS 