Aztlan mass media createdThe first steps toward creating an alternative Mass Communications Center were taken November 22 during an all Chicano Mass Media Conference held in Pueblo. The conference was sponsored by Producciones Estrella Roja de Colorado (Red Star Productions). The purpose of the conference was to promote various interests and capacities in alternative Chicano media and to recruit a core group of people willing to start a Chicano Communications Center which will serve Chicanos throughout Aztlan. About 40-50 persons were invited to attend the one-day conference and workshops because of their past activities and interests in the area of media and communications. Delegates agreed that Chicanos are not fairly represented by the Anglo-dominated media and that an alternative must be created. Now in the planning stages, the Pueblo based communications center is expected to provide an alternative FM radio station, newspaper, and publication house. Although the aquisition of an FM radio station is feasible, the problem is raising the money. The cost was estimated at $200,000, the bulk going toward paying qualified engineers, disk jockeys, and the purchase of equipment. Presses, newsprint, rental space, etc., is an additional cost that must be reckoned with. Financial sources are now being considered. One in particular is the Campaign For Human Development. The Campaign is affiliated with the Catholic Archdiocese and has. for example, funded a poor people's clinic in Rocky Ford, Colorado. A reliable source has stated that the chances of getting funded for the new project are “very good.” Juan Espinosa, former El Diario editor and co-founder of Producciones Estrella Roja, explained the goals and objectives of the new project. He stressed the need for an alternative which would produce jobs and offer a training center for community people. Chicanos comprise 35-38 percent of the total population in Pueblo. Yet, Chicano employment in the Pueblo media is less than representative. In the fie!' 4 of broadcasting, for example, the eight radio and one television local stations employ 132 people, of which 16 percent are Chicano. When the figures from one Spanish language radio station are deleted, the percentage of Chicanos employed drops to 12 percent (15 of 126). Figures in the print media show that nine percent, four of 43 local news gathers are Chicanos.The future project will be designed to meet and eventually exceed the job now being done by the local media. The solution, says Espinosa, is professionalism. "Those of us who commit ourselves have to go at it full time and not on a part time basis. Professionalism means working full time and being the best.” Espinosa quickly cited Teatro Compesino as an example. “They are professionals,” he said. “They work hard at what they do and they do it right. We have to be the same way.” Before an alternative communication center is created, steps must be taken to insure that the community will benefit fully. The first step, Espinosa said, is to become independent. That is, serve a purpose other than taking advantage of the community. “Society is a product of Mass Communication.“ Espinosa said. "The mass media isn’t doing it’s job. People buy Alka-Seltzer because an advertisement says it’s good for ithem. Actually, people can live just as well without it.” The second step is to decide what language the new system will operate with. “Are we going to be bilingual, Spanish, or English?” Espinosa asked. The problem of reaching the community, however, goes much deeper than that. Forexample, what approach will be used when in fact, more than one half of the Chicano population in Pueblo cannot read and write in Spanish or English? "The answer.” Espinosa said, "is very difficult. But, first we have to find out what the needs of the people are. then compromise and maybe rely more on graphics.” During the radio and television workshop. David Martinez, co-founder Producciones Estrella Roja introduced the Fairness Doctrine and how we could benefit from using it. The Fairness Doctrine in effect states that: Any controversial issue which is broadcast j is subject to rebuttal. Equal I time must be given to the opposing side. "The air waves belong to everyone.” Martinez said. Martinet, explained that the Fairness Doctrine had been tested in the past by Pueblo Chicanos. The action was taken soon after Commentator Paul. Harvey made* a derogatory statement in reference to printing voting ballots in language other than English. Haney branded this practice as "obscene.” Harvey’s statements were contested and consequently equal time was given to present the Chicano's point of view.A conference organizer, Juan Espinosa takes pictures for posterity.