Why we still boycott...
Ed. Note: The following has been contributed by the Farm Labor Task Force. After years of strike and boycott, we have finally won the right to free secret ballot elections in the fields of California. We see this as a major victory, we are now a step closer to gaining for farmworkers the rights they have been denied by growers for generations. Yet, the Gallo Wine Corporation has launched another assault on the dignity of farmworkers. They claim that the i boycott is immoral, that with first step we should now let down our guard and dismantle the structure that has won these elections for farmworkers and has gained decent contracts from many [growers. But farmworkers have been [betrayed at the hands of corporate i power before, and we must now reaffirm our commitment to continue the struggle for farmworkers rights through our most effective weapons, the strike and the boycott Some of you may wonder why farmworkers fear betrayal to such an extent that we would continue our boycott even with elections guaranteed. A history of unfair and underhanded dealings on the part of many companies, whose greed colors their honesty, has provided a justified base for our fears. During 1971, a large number of California lettuce growers agreed to comply with the wishes of the vast majority of workers in their fields and negotiate with the United Farmworkers Union until a fair contract was reached. As a gesture of good faith, the UFW immediately dismantled the entire lettuce boycott structure. For almost a year these lettuce growers stalled, unwilling to negotiate a serious contract. Finally, in 1972, many growers signed "sweetheart” contracts with the Teamsters Union, a total betrayal of both their word, and of the workers. The case of the E & J Gallo Winery gives us another example of why we feel we cannot let down our guard again. From April 17, 1967 until April 17, 1973 the United Farmworkers Union maintained a fair contract with the Gallo Wine Corporation. The contract drastically improved working conditions, increased wages, provided bathroom facilities and fresh drinking water in the fields, ended child labor, closely supervised the use of dangerous pesticides in the fields, established a Union hiring hall whereby workers were hired on the basis of seniority giving them job security for the first time ever, and improved the lives of farmworkers on the Gallo ranch in many ways. Yet, on April 17, 1973, when the UFW-Gallo contract expired, Teamster Union officials were seen coming and going from the Gallo vineyards while negotiating sessions were being held between the UFW and Gallo. Over the next two months several workers who were active in the Union were fired for various reasons and one worker was hospitalized when Gallo sprayed a toxic pesticide on the fields in direct violation of the Union contract On May 10 and May 11, 1973, Gallo supervisors assisted Teamster Union organizers in conducting meetings of workers in the Gallo fields, only to issue a mild apology to Cesar Chavez in a telegram ten days later saying, “the Teamsters do not represent our workers ... we can continue negotiations any time." Finally, on July 3, 1973, a
delegation of six catholic priests and nuns conducted a card check of Gallo workers to resolve once and for all who the workers wished to represent them. An overwhelming majority of the workers, it was found, supported the UFW. Yet Gallo ignored these results and only 3 days later, after only one negotiating session, on July 6, 1973, Gallo signed a 4-year contract with the Teamsters Union. By this time workers could tolerate the deceit no longer, and 192 of the 222 Gallo farmworkers joined the strike. The guarantee by the company that the decision of the workers would be respected became a totally false and empty promise. For the 86% of Gallo workers on strike, the fear of another betrayal is very real. Unfortunately, the case of the Gallo Winery is not the exception, but has proven to be the rule. Over the past 3 years more than 55,000 farmworkers have lost the benefit of UFW contracts through similar underhanded dealings on the part of lettuce growers, grape growers, and other wine companies. Still, some of you may wonder why this major victory, the guarantee of elections in the fields, is only a first step on the road to dignity and justice for farmworkers. For 10 years the blood and sweat of farmworkers has flowed upon the streets and fields from Coachella to Sacramento. We began with a march of 300 miles from the fields in Delano to the State Capitol in Sacramento in 1965, demanding the legislature to guarantee farmworkers the right to free elections, to guarantee farmworkers the same rights that other workers in this country enjoy. AND WE HAVE WON. Now, we must carry this victory back to the fields, to grocery stores and liquor stores, and to the consumers to assure that there are no more betrayals, that fair contracts are signed. Here in Boulder, the battle for farmworkers rights has been led by the Farm Labor Task Force. Since picketing began last March, five liquor stores, Pudliks at 1728 29th Sl, Canon Park Liquors at 295 Pearl Sl, Greenbelt Liquors at 4481 Broadway, O.K. Liquors at 3156 28th St., and Baseline 2750 Baseline Rd., have removed all Gallo wines from their shelves and agreed not to reorder. The process has been long and hard. Pickets have been subjected to racist attacks, there have been numerous arrests, and goons have been used by certain store owners to try and break the picket lines. Yet, with all this our picketlines have been effective both economically and educationally. The majority of Boulder consumers still refuse to cross UFW picketlines because of their support for La Causa, and liquor store owners have been forced to co-operate by this consumer mandate. At press time FLTF members are engaged in picketing at Pettyjohn’s Liquor in the Table Mesa Shopping Center. We hope that Pettyjohn’s will join the five other stores in Boulder that cooperate with the boycott, and we will be able to carry the boycott to Boulder's largest liquor store, the Liquor Mart. We have yet to lose a battle in Boulder. At every liquor store we have appeared, we have won. Now, with the guarantee of elections, we must continue to use our economic weapon, the boycott, to keep up pressure on Gallo and assure that there are no more betrayals. We will win the elections, we
have no doubt. The UFW has pledged that if the workers vote against UFW representation, the boycott will be immediately called off, but we remain confident. Yet, we have learned that the guarantee of elections is no absolute guarantee of decent contracts. The election is only the beginning, the first step in the process of gaining our ultimate goal, justice for farmworkers. Most strikes in this country occur not because Union elections were denied by a company, but because profit-minded companies refuse to bargain seriously and honestly with Union representatives. Our greatest strength lies in the boycott and the strike. We have too often relied on the decency of companies, we have too often trusted their facade of justice and concern. This is why we must continue the boycott, this is why we must not retreat and weaken ourselves when our sweat and blood have raised us from degradation to a position of strength. Our fight will continue until justice for farmworkers is not merely a promise, but a reality. M.A.P. recreation The annual M.A.P. summer picnic was held on the grounds of the Academy Building at 9th and Aurora on Sunday, June Bth for the new M.A.P. summer students. Games such as horse shoe, volley bal|, basketball, frisbee, and kids relays were enjoyed by all M.A.P. students who participated in the games. Future recreation schedule for summer includes a camping trip on July 25 and 26, the place has not yet been determined. During the summer the children of the M.A.P. students will be escorted to watch the Denver Bears baseball team play one of its regular games. Parents will receive the information by mail so that everyone can attend. For further information, contact John T. Hernandez at 4928492 or 444-6842.
