Project ALMA may be discontinued
Ed. Note: The following are excerpts from a story printed in the South Coloradan, an Adams State College newspaper. There is a serious possibility that Project ALMA or the College Assistance Migrant Program will not be funded after August 31 of this year, according to Dr. Arnold Chavez, director of the program at Adams State. The program is currently funded under the Comprehensive Manpower Program and Grants to Areas of High Unemployment of the Department of Labor. However, the Department of Labor is currently re-evaluating its inclusion of the CAMP programs in the manpower training program. According to Chavez, the department is likely to take the position that this four year higher education program should not be categorized or funded with short-term manpower training programs. CAMP programs such as ALMA were not included in the recently published register of manpower training programs released by the Department of Labor. Chavez says that, though this is not a final directive, being left out of the register can usually be viewed as “the handwriting on the wall" for a program. Chavez went to Washington, D.C. on April 16-18 to find out why ALMA was not included in the register. He met with Charles Carter and Gary Wiseman of the Department of Labor. Chavez was told that though the DOL might be able to include the High School Equivalency Program (H.E.P.) under its funding, it was very doubtful whether they would be able to include the CAMP
programs. Project ALMA is one i of the four chapters of the CAMP y program. Alternative funding source could be the Special Services program under the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW). However, Chavez says that these programs have traditionally been run differently than ALMA. They have been aimed mainly at urban students with good grades in high school. ALMA has been directed towards the needs of rural students who have been educationally disadvantaged. In addition, the HEW Special Service programs have also been allocated their funding amounts, according to Chavez. If neither the DOL nor HEW picks up the program, Chavez says it will probably have to be discontinued. ALMA was originally funded on the assumption that “a large number of rural high school graduates in Colorado from low income families who have the ability to succeed in college never enroll in college because of financial, academic or motivational reasons. ALMA is designed to recruit and assist farmworker students with college potential who need assistance in securing financial aid, need college preparatory instruction prior to enrollment and need counseling and tutoring during their freshman year. At the present time, there are 100 students attending Adams State on the ALMA program. Most of them come from a seasonal farmworking background and many of these have no permanent state of residency. The lack of permanent
residency for migrant workers often causes problems in obtaining financial aid for education. The position paper of the CAMP directors states “to the best of our knowledge, the legislation for HEPs and CAMPs is the only existant legislation focusing specifically on the hard to employ and under-educated farmworker youth."
