From the Denver CenterSan Cajetano— within its walls memories remain "Within the walls the memories still remain even though everything else is now gone. San Cajetano was more than a church —to its people, it was a way of life. An historical account of this church located at 9th and Lawrence. The new San Cajetano located at Alameda and Raleigh was blessed two weeks ago. LESSON #1 AURARIA Today: San Cajetano’s Church remains in the hands of the Auraria Educational Complex. Yet, a goodly portion of the present student population attending the Denver Campus, Metro and Community College will not realize the implications of having ‘San Cajetanos’ used as a multi-cultural center. This includes those involved with the administration of the tri-college. Probably what will stand out is that it is now an ‘ex-church.’ Hopefully, what I write will enlighten those who will frequent the place in the future and possibly contribute to the emerging Auraria Community. The San Cajetano community had established itself prior to the completion of the Church proper. In 1922, Father Bartalomeo Caldentay C.R. gained the permission of the well-known Father O’Ryan, pastor of St. Leo’s Church, to use the basement of that Church for services to the fast-growing Mexican population coming into the Denver area. St. Leo’s at that time was predominately Irish and was located on the corner of Ninth Street and Colfax Avenue. Bishop John J. Tihen duly impressed by the large number of Mexicans (Chicanos) then attending services, in June, 1922, gave his own permission to form a Church for the 3,000 to 5,000 crowding into the Church proper and overflowing into the basement where standing room was unavailable. Father Caldentay was a Spaniard of the Theatine Order of Clerks whose principal duty was to establish in this country a religious force to meet the needs, temporal and spiritual of the Mexican people. The problem of the ‘Spanish-speaking’ Community was in need to some response. These were made known to Mr. J.K. Mullen a well known philanthropist who answered this need by donating a parcel of land located between Eighth and Ninth Streets at the Lawrence St. junction. In 1923 Father Onofre ‘Humphrey’ Martorell succeeding Father Caldentay the new pastorate, raised $5,000 required to begin the construction of “their own Church.” All of this money was raised by the migrant workers of the Great Western Sugar Company, and others who came north from the impoverished villages of New Mexico. All the money was deposited in a bank that suddenly declared bankruptcy. The great-hearted J.K. Mullen then donated the needed monies to begin the construction of St. Cajetano's Church. October 1924 was the year that the solid foundation was laid and became a ‘basement Church for the Mexicans,’ until the $15,000 debt was eliminated, slowly and painfully, by the poorest of this ethnic group which was soon to become Denver’s largest minority.Completion of the Church followed in 1926, again made possible by J.K. Mullen who fulfilling his wife’s desire to see the Church completed complied with her wish. Once more the spectre of a $20,000 debt loomed and the working people of the parish set out to eliminate it. March 21st, 1926 became a historic event for the Church. It was consecrated. An estimated 10,000 ‘Mexicans’ and others from the region attended the impressive ceremony of Consecration. It became the hub of all activity relevant to the ‘Spanish-speaking’ in the Denver area and beyond, the center whose heart and soul was dedicated to the spiritual, economical and even the physical well-being of the people. As far back as I can remember, San Cajetano’s Church served not only as a location for spiritual purpose —a personal aesthetic, but also for thoseresidents who gathered there for the socio-cultural functions. There were those who volunteered to continue the maintenance of the Church property. There is a long list of viejos who served unfailingly, coming from feu- beyond the boundaries of the Denver area. It is to their credit that often in a hostile environment they continued to work in the summer and winter carnivals, endless ‘comidas’ and ‘bailes’ to augment funds to continue the social and spiritual that the ‘Mexicans’ had established within the confines of the St. Cajetanos Community. A long cherished dream was brought into reality when the St. Cajetan’s Grammar school was dedicated on the property across the street—Boo Lawrence in 1934-5. For me and all of my companions it was to be the beginning of many happy learning years under the confident and secure knowledge that this was indeed our school where our abilities and capabilities were guided in ways that other schools could or would not accomplish. Now the action accelerated and PTA meetings and related activities, sports, piano lessons, followed under the watchful care of the Benedictine Order of Teaching Sisters who came from Capulin to establish the St. Cajetano’s schools and give the parish the name of a true well-rounded educational complex for the children of all even those who did not attend the Church proper. Though English was spoken our own traditional and cultural heritage was always emphasized. Auraria then contributed to most of the Church’s and the school’s functions as well as toits membership, forming a ‘familia’ concept that contributed to a high level of efficiency. This became the means to accomplish major needed pro- • jects and the continuation of the • relevant cultural nature of the ‘Chicano’ people who so heavily populated Auraria. This same solidarity helped to carry out events of numerous benefit to all the people throughout the years since it first was established. Contact with the city officials was usually made by and through the Church and its contributing members. As I write of San Cajetano, it becomes almost impossible to put into words the vast scope ofwhat it had become to the Chicano people. I emphasize not only the Church’s role in the Community, but the school, the rectory and the Sisters' convent which at that time was St. Cajetano’s complement.Together as a unit they kept the Auraria Community informed and involved. Participation at the functions gave the people, even those who did not attend services there or the school, moral and physical support. An aspect of communal structure. Budgeting was well planned and finances were allocated with the Community in mind. Tuition at the school was $20.00 for each family, regardless of size. Education was disciplined, (the Benedictine Sisterhood saw to that). The school-lunch program provided a nutritional meal for all who attended, at minimal cost and with the cultural taste of the children inmind. School staff had limited funds to work with. I remember that we probably had the least expensive football uniforms in the entire parochial system. There were the years that parents decided that the ‘uniform system’ for all the schoolchildren would save the families in their clothes costs. The parents agreed to involve themselves in selecting the material for these uniforms, a tacky checkered grey and white material (which I hated). There were always some who could not afford even to buy the material, so the dauntless sisters took it upon themselves to provide the clothes, through programs they devised to raise money often contributing their own meager personal funds. This is an example of ‘community life-style,’ and not of simple ‘Acts of Charity.’ Often when money was needed from either party—it was there. This is another factor in a community development—the ability and determination to ‘get a community going.’ Students who attended the school and church were not only Chicanos. There did exist a cross-out of ethnicities and religions. Chicano culture as we know it, was not a class, it was incorporated into the student life. These are the learning experiences which the relocated people of Auraria carry with them wherever they may have been ‘transplanted.’There is an altruistic tendency toward community survival—a sort of continuing social conscience. The Community repercussion at having the St. Cajetan structure stand out as a reference point for Community development brought new blood into this Community. These people again, many in ethnic origin and name, helped to renovate the Church, its general surroundings inside and out. Where once stood a pillar crowded bingo room, a modem Community kitchen was realized, through Community input was provided by a sub-contract-or whose family utilized their craft in carpentry and renovating. There were residents who were of the St. Cajetan’s Auraria Community who contributed donations not of the ‘church tithe' nature, but on a realistic level which did not ‘soak’ the community itself. This was the type of close-knit atmosphere that existed during St. Cajetan's active days. Now that changes have come to a Community once re-moved—a new one to succeed, hopefully a similar sort of relationship will come into existence between students and the residents of the surrounding areas. The Auraria Complex can play upon this socio-cultural precedent with the convention of three colleges combined. The Office of Campus Development is such cm avenue which the students can use for continued campus community involvement, using the Community to complement the tri-educational system. This may renew those ties that the Auraria residents with themselves generally. Should Auraria become a ‘monster’ which encroaches upon the surrounding area of the entire community, forcing itself as a tyrant does its serfs, then all the intense and solid foundation laid within the Community are well lost. Sinceremente, A graduate of the C.U. Denver Campus and former resident [lifetimel of Auraria.New San Cajetano church located at Alameda and Raleigh.