Dora Esquibel Can't be hurt anymoreLast January Dora Esquibel was charged with six offenses ranging from conspiracy to burglary in connection with charges filed against her son, Randy. Since then all charges against her but one, accessory to after the fact have been dropped. Dora was convicted and sentenced to two years in the penitentiary—a first offense and conviction for Dora. In handing down the verdict, the judge told Dora that to let her off easily would encourage and condone lawlessness and insurrection in the country, referring to Dora and Randy’s political involvement in barrio reform in La Junta. Police reported to local newspapers 489 sticks of dynamite were found in a vacant house owned by Dora in Las Animas. Dora denies ever knowing of their existence. No charges were ever filed against her either for the alleged possession of the dynamite. Since then, 89items all belonging to her have been confiscated from Dora’s home. The media has slanted Dora’s case and has been used as a tool of harassment against her and her family. The media has failed to print and answer the true questions arising in Dora’s case. Why wasn’t Dora charged with possession of dynamite if she supposedly knew of its existence? Why did the media fail to inform the public that items confiscated belonged to Dora and were not stolen? Why was Dora sentenced to two years on a first offense conviction? Dora feels the dynamite was planted merely to publicize, and slant her case. The media has failed to publish Dora’s rebuttal and statements concerning what she feels really happened.Dora feels the dominating white media has been used to hurt her and all innocent people. Despite the hurt and harassment Dora has been subjected to, she has committed herself to the plight and cause of La Raza. “Every time you fight for something, it is because someone has been sacrificed. If you can’t take the consequences, don’t get involved,” responded Dora in a recent El Diario interview. Dora feels she can’t be hurt anymore. Dora is now trying to appeal her case. Hampered by her financial situation, the fight is proving to be a hard and Support and contributions for Dora and her family can be sent in care of El Diario, University of Colorado, UMC 416, Boulder, Colo. 80309. !Si gana uno, ganamos todos!Dora EsquibelRandy Esquibel