Letter to the editorEditor's Note: Two pintos tell of the racial flare-ups in Canon City.To our Gente, De los Chicanos encarcelados en Canon City The purpose of this letter is to awaken you to our problems inside the walls here at the prison, and how you as Chicanos can aid us. We will attempt to show you first the problems that confront us and the alternatives we presented to the Governor through Warden Evans and Mr. Agee and the decision of ultimately stopping negotiations by inmates with the administration, by the administration with no regard for human life, Chicano or otherwise! A. An inmate committee was formed at the request of the administration to resolve the racial tension that occurred due to armed confrontation between Blacks and Chicanos Tuesday, Sept. 23, 1975. It left three Blacks stabbed or wounded, and one white paralyzed from the waist down possibly for life. B. This committee was to consist of eight Chicanos, eight Blacks and eight whites. Chicanos and whites to represent Cell House #1 and the Blacks to represent their people in D Cell House #7, where they are temporarily housed. We then started meeting with federal mediators Tuesday, the 26th of September. C. They asked us for alternatives to segregation. Legally none exist, so we chose not to discuss this issue immediately as both sides, or I should say, three sides agreed we would sooner or later integrate. This was not advisable at the moment due to built-up tension on all three sides. (Excluding the administration) D. The built-up tension in the Cell Houses identified as the primary problem at the moment this caused by being confined without distraction 24 hours a day in their cells with only one baloney sandwich in the morning and one meal at night. Showers whenever “they” thought of it. So far two showers have been taken (this started eight days ago) and no physical exercise whatsoever. This we felt deserved our attention first and that of the administration. To seek relief! The Dept, of Corrections felt that this could not be because if they were to open the cells in Cell House #7 the Blacks would or could injure the protection cases housed there (the rats) even though they’re screened off. It was possible for the Blacks to choose going to the gym for up to eight hours a day, while negotiations were being tended to by the representatives. Our joint reply was no because the Blacks would be deprived the use of phones and other necessities. All this time the 24 Reps held a caucus to discuss other alternatives. We then asked the administration to consider moving the protection cases to the gym and letting the Blacks out since their area was screened off anyway. At this time Mr. Agee said he had to fly to Denver to have counsel with a higher authority and bring back an answer later that evening. Upon returning, he said they would consider nothing until we came together in the same Cell House: Blacks, whites and Chicanos. In the eyes of the Rep., this was action not considered. The consequences, so soon after a racial disturbance as has been proven in the past and we question strongly the logic in this decision. It is obvious we don’t have a voice that will realistically affect or guarantee our physical well being, Black, white or Chicano.It seems that in a normal society one could apply their logic of coming together, shaking hands, and everything would be fine. But this is not Boston and this is not a normal society. We can not go to the park to relieve our tensions, but rather contain them and deal with it the best way possible. We’d like to remind someone, anyone that this is a confined society —not a free society. Let our Gente decide our fate We need help up here as we feel and see our rights being violated. Not just Chicanos, but all convicts. The Dept, of corrections continues to subject us to cruel and unusual punishment. Even the guards agree the administration’s decision is questionable. We need attorneys and the exposure of the media so the* free world will get the truth in our attempts to solve our immediate problems. Chicanos Black and white. A people in need, reaching out to you for help. Viva La Raza, Gregory Ramirez