Sanchez evaluates programFor 14 months the United Mexican American Student Educational Opportunity Program (UMAS-EOP) in Boulder crawled along without a permanent director. In August, 1975, Patrick Sanchez, 40, former director of the Graduate Institute for Training Mexican Americans at California State University at Fullerton, filled the director position vacated by Joe Franco in May, 1973. It was reported Sanchez worked 75 hours the first week of his directorship to prepare himself for the challenges and problems that were to be expected in his new job. “All of the reputation this program has suffered is uncalled for,” Sanchez said after directing the program for four months. “The students have been fantastic.” “If we could just get over our financial problems we’ll have a fine program,” he said. “People must realize this program has a lot going for it and stop looking down at it as a step-child. Things are looking up.” Debts and more debts Much of this year’s state budget monies have been used to pay off debts incurred against UMAS-EOP in previous years. With this year’s budget the same as last year’s Sanchez said he’s left with very little to work with. “UMAS-EOP has done nothing but live off the state allocations until now. We have to begin being innovative to generate monies from other sources,” Sanchez said. Sanchez is trying to find monies to develop the program by looking into what agencies are providing monies for what types of programs and writing proposals for the money. When he was working at Fullerton, that was his main duty. He was a “grantsman.” At Fullerton, Sanchez solicited between $1.5 and $3 million per year to supplement the graduate programs’ funding. Last year Sanchez solicited $267,000, of which 80 percent went toward student funding through fellowships and grants. He is seeking scholarships to get those Chicanos with special talents into school and to keep them there. “There's a lot of money to be tapped and we haven’t done it,” he said. More monies will be needed in the future, Sanchez said. “We can expect the EOP state budget to either decrease or stay the same, even though the number of students on campus will increase.” Right now there are 740 Chicano students on the Boulder campus of the University of Colorado. The EOP program is now undergoing a complete reevaluation. Sanchez said he hopes to develop the program and structure the program to alleviate as many of the students’ worries as possible so they are able to concentrate fully on their studies. “First, we have to identify the problems, find the solutions and move the program to meet those problems,” Sanchez said. “UMAS-EOP has only been a maintenance program, but we hope to expand it when restructuring, so we do other things,” Sanchez said. He’d like to see UMAS-EOP provide activities that create a cultural awareness, like dance and Teatro. “We want to help them become self sustaining.”“We’re already changing the program,” he said, referring to the remodeling of the counseling component. (See related story). “Services are still there. This way students can seek help when they need it.” Due to the poor budgeting in the past Sanchez said many services have been cut this year to avoid laying off anyone permanently who is involved with the program. Sanchez is confident all the services are adequate except tutoring at this point. Tutor Problem “Now that we’re closing in on the end of the semester there has been an increase in demand for tutors. The tutorial component has managed up until now.” “We’re trying to refer students to the other departments that offer tutors in order to use the money to hire tutors for those areas of study that don’t provide tutors, for example, chemistry, anthropology and astronomy.” “We’re stable, but we can’t expand the program right now,” Sanchez said. “Right now I can’t do a lot of the things I want to do.” Door is always open Sanchez practices an open door policy. He encourages students to talk to him about their hassles. He’s dealt with every one of the problems brought to his attention. Sanchez said, “I’ve never turned a student away who needed help.” He says he can identify with the students because he’s in the same situation as many of the students here. He’s on his own here, away from his immediate family. They’re still trying to sell their home in California. He said the only family he has close by is UMAS He admits there are problems in this family (UMAS), as there are problems in all families. All the disagreements (within UMAS) are caused by the pressures that are apparent in every family, Sanchez said. In looking after “his family” Sanchez noted that the students who finish their second year of school have an unusually high drop-out rate. He is trying to find out the reasons and will decide what measures must be taken to stop the high attrition rate. “It’s just a waste,” Sanchez said for the students to attend the University for two years and then drop out. A high freshman attrition rate is to be expected, he said, but the second year attrition rate is much higher than the general population drop-out rate. “I don’t think the problem is academic,” Sanchez said. He suspects the problem lies in financial aid allocations. Native of Colorado Sanchez was born in Trinidad and raised in Denver. He graduated from West high school. He received his undergraduate degree in Greeley’s University of Northern Colorado (formerly called Colorado State College). Sanchez received his graduate degree from the University of Southern California. Sanchez has received many awards but most recently he is the recipient of the 1975 George I. Sanchez award. The award is presented annually for outstanding service to Spanish speaking people by Re forma, a national organization of Spanish-speaking andSpanish-sumamed librarians Reforma is affiliated with the American Library Association. In addition to his directorship in Boulder, Sanchez currently is director of Proyecto Leer, an education services program of the Organization of American States. The program is providmg libraries and educational support services for Spanish-speak-ing people in the United States, Central America, Mexico and Peru.