New A&S plan says sink or swimBEWARE FELLOW CLASSMATES! If you are a student under the Arts and Sciences, you may find yourself out of school and onto the streets by the time the 1976 spring semester rolls around; so take heed. Associate Dean of Arts and Sciences, John R. Carnes and the Arts and Sciences Appeals Committee have devised a new plan for those who are lagging behind academically. The prime targets are C.U. Arts and Sciences students whose cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) falls below 2.0 at the end of this semester or in the future. There is, however, a chance for the student to redeem himself. The student who has attempted less than 30 hours will be placed on PROBATION for the spring semester. If at the end of the PROBATION period the student is still below a 2.0 he will automatically be DISMISSED from the college.If a student has attempted 30 hours or more and if he does not meet the “Sliding Scale” (see A&S Bulletin P. 5) during this semester, he will be dismissed as of January, 1976, and DISENROLLED from the spring 1976 semester. If he has met the “Sliding Scale” for this semester he will be placed on PROBATION for the spring semester, 1976. If at the end of the PROBATION period he is still below 2.0, he will be DISMISSED from the college and DISENROLLED from the fall 1976 semester. If a student is DISMISSED from the arts and sciences he can be reinstated only after raising his cumulative GPA to 2.0 by work taken in C.U.’s summer session or in C.U.’s Division of Continuing Education. Details will be given in the letter of DISMISSAL. If the student is reinstated he is not guaranteed admission back into the school. Once the quota has been filled he will have to delay registration one semester.No room The Arts and Sciences Appeals Committee is standing firm on their decisions and there will be no exceptions. They state that if a student doesn’t make it, he then “goes back to the end of the line’’ in seeking re-enrollment. The harsh measures are being taken because the University is currently operating under a 20,000 student ceiling imposed by the state legislature. In a memorandum prepared by Dean Carnes, he states that many qualified students were excluded this fall because of quota problems, and that no new students will be admitted for the spring semester, 1976. Says he, “we cannot in good conscience refuse admission to qualified students, new and former, at the same time that we permit students who have not met minimum standards to continue to occupy space in our classrooms." Coming down hard! Felipe Roybal, UMAS-EOP Counselor Coordinator, said that the number of students suspended so far is “devastating." Last summer, 695 Arts and Sciences students were suspended and of this total, 96 were UMAS students. According to Roybal, there are other factors involved that can cause the student many problems and/or possible suspension from school. He warns that because of the 20,000-student limitation quota, “they’re coming down hard on us." Roybal urges all Chicano students to take precautions and avoid the hassles. STOPS can be made on a student’s stipend and/or registration materials if he is guilty of the following infractions: —a short term loan that hasn’t been payed. —a missing library book or library fine. —previous tuition that hasn’t been payed. —an unpayed traffic fine. rent owed to family housing or a dorm debt. —a returned check cashed at the University. —has not taken the ACT and SAT exams.