Coors empire built by greedBack in 1966 the Colorado GI Forum (a Chicano veterans organization) began receiving complaints that the Coors company was discriminating against Chicanos and Blacks in its hiring and promotion practices. The Forum investigated the accusations and found evidence to support the charges. Thus began an intensive boycott against the Coors companies and their products. Since then, the boycott has been successful in some areas of the state and not so successful in others. The drive to make people aware of the boycott intensified at times and was quite successful. The effort at other times has slumped to a low, mostly because of apathetic attitudes. We now seem to be coming out of this slump. Indications of a renewed interest in the boycott of Coors have been apparent since the beginning of the year. On the evening of Oct. 15, 1975 in Denver, Joseph Coors was honored by the Denver County Young Republicans as their 1975 Man-of-the-Year. Before Coors received the award, he was given a greeting by about 60 members of the Aztlan Boycott Coors Committee. The following press release was issued at that time: “The AZTLAN BOYCOTT COORS COMMITTEE opposes not only the selection of Joseph Coors, by the Denver County Young Republicans as their 1975 MAN-OF-THE-YEAR, but also his nomination by President Ford to sit as a director on the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The Boycott of Coors Beer is still on and will continue. The reasons for the boycott go beyond the initial charges of Racist Employment Practices. ” The continuation of the boycott is motivated by a humanistic approach to the controversy surrounding the Coors family and its corporate empire. The Coors issue is an outstanding example of arrogant systematic corporate exploitation of workers, consumers, small businesses, and the environment. Coors is a family-owned multimillion dollar conglomerate with dealings in: beer, dog food, cans, bottles, military ceramics, and fucking around with the natural balance of our Mother Earth (an example of this, is the cloud seeding done in the San Luis valley to increase the production of barley used in the brewing of their beer). Many charges of union busting, consumer abuse, repression of student and women’s rights, and a phony concern for the environment have been raised by critics of the Coors empire. It is a well known fact that the Coors empire was built by the greed of one family at the cost of sweat and misery of thousands of people. Now is the time for students and community people in Colorado to continue and expand the struggle against Coors. YA BASTA CON COORS! CHICANOS ARRIBA COORS ABAJO! contributed by Aztlan Coors Boycott Committee