The Crusade for Justice is not an organization that is there to* make trouble, but to educate the people. Trouble and pressure build up as a result of the success which the Crusade has had in achieving this goal. The image that many people have of the Crusade, as Mrs. Gonzales contends, is in away distorted. “It scares people.” But this happens because people ignore what the Crusade is all about, as well as the adjustments it has to undergo in order to cope with internal and external pressures. The image the media has public ed of the Crusade and of the movement as a whole is also distorted. Only aspects related to open confrontations with the system are conveyed, and are always exaggerated to our disadvantage. This, however, has not stopped the Crusade from doing the work it set out to do and that is, to educate our children.“Tragedy at Tlatelolco” The public school system has always neglected its responsibility toward Chicanitos and other minority children. Many have been pushed out, and others have dropped out because the institution failed to offer guidance and encouragement. Other school related problems have existed, including one that students and community people could no longer tolerate...racism. In 1968 Chicano students at West High School in Denver walked out of their classrooms demanding that a teacher be fired for his racist attitude. The walkout letter resulted in a number of riots in and around the school. The teacher was not fired. He was only transferred to practice somewhere else what he knew best...racism. Following the West Side Blow up the Crusade and other community people recognized how bad the schools really were: If the schoolsystem could not meet the needs of the their children, the answer' would be the creation of an alternate school. Thus, Escuela Tlaltelolco came into existence. There is a place in the heart of Mexico City called “Plaza de las Tres Culturas” most commonly known as Tlatelolco. Here, the Indian, Hispanic, and modern cultures met to witness more than the glories—thr tragedies of our people. One of these tragedies was the massacre of Tlatelolco, where it is believed mo; e than one thousand people were gunned down by the party in power. As a reminder and in tribute of those who died, the Crusade for Justice chose to name its school “Escuela Tlatelolco.” No great difference The difference between the public schools and the Crusade is cultural awareness and self identity. In every classroom and in every hallway there areconstant reminders of our culture, language and familia. Moreover, a heavy emphasis is placed on the ever present oppressive system. Politically, instead of learning about government and the bureaucracy behind it, the children at Tlatelolco learn to fight it and deal with it on their own terms. For example, whole classes will often attend court hearings or demonstrations where they can learn for themselves. Why does Tlatelolco choose to teach this way? One must remember that society and the system played an important role in determining this. Other than cultural and political awareness, Tlatelolco is not much different from public schools. Mrs. Romero points out that “academically our kids are learning the same things they would be learning in public schools." The school’s success is measured by the student enrollment and academic accomplishments. Two hundred students attend either the modernized nursery school, grade-school, high school, or college which offers an accredited masters degree program. Apart from the basic courses, Tlatelolco offers classes in teatro, ballet, photography, sewing and much more. In recent years the school has incorporated Spanish, reading,, math, history and science labs. To be sure the children are taught well. Quite different from earlier years when one teacher taught and covered a variety of subjects all in one classroom. Public schools unfair Tlatelolco has completely eliminated traditional child placement methods commonly utilized by public schools. These placement methods have been proven unfair and only serve to hinder the child throughout his public school life. They further serve as a unique way of separating children according to their abilities. For example, a numberof schools make use of the “track system”—placing high achievers and low achievers in separate groups within the classroom. At year’s end, a child has been conditioned to associate only with children in his group. Another common practice is “grade retention.” The -.hild who cannot keep up with is classmates is flunked and must repeat the grade against his wishes. The Chicano child who faces such injustices is surely marked as a loser.Escuela Tlatelolco has completely done away with these unfair practices, incorporating a totally new concept in teaching. At the elementary level, grades one through seven have been given the names of the seven Indian cultures of the Americas (siete Culturas de las Americas); Olmecas, Mayas, Toltecas, Teotihuacanos, Chichimecas, Miz-teco-Zapoteca and the Nahualcacas. Mrs. Romero, who’s idea it was to incorporate the new system, says it was done for a number of reasons but mainly to give the children a sense of self identity. Inferiority complexes eliminated The new sysiem helps considerably in other ways. When the child in public school has to repeat a subject or grade, heautomatically feels inferior as he sees his classmates advancing without him. Tlatelolco has corrected this problem. For example, if a fourth grader is reading at the second grade level, he does not have to repeat the grade but is temporarily placed in a tribe that is reading at his pace. Inferiority complexes are quickly eliminated since the child is constantly reminded that tribal membership comes in all ages and all sizes. Once the child has left a particular tribe he notonly improves academically, but has gained the historical knowledge of that tribe. “The children that leave Tlatelolco and attended public schools became leaders," says Mrs. Romero. She cited her own son as an example who unwillingly went back to attend a public school. There, he was required to say the national anthem but refused. After a confrontation with school officials and a series of negotiations, he was allowed to pay tribute to his own flag—the green, white and red flag of Mexico. Discipline is hard to administer in all school system and Tlatelolco is no different. The problem, however, has been solved at Tlatelolco. Says Mrs. Romero, “as punishment, we threaten.to send them back to public schools."Teresa Romero [left] and Geraldine Gonzalez with children of Tlatelolco.