Antonio Alcamtar recalls bombingAntonio Alcantar, lone survivor of the May 1973 Boulder bombings, remembered what happened the day of the second bombing, in an interview. Alcantar told Benito Montoya, KCFR producer of the taped interview he was “checking out the campus” with intentions of attending school in Boulder at the University of Colorado. With Heriberto Teran, Florencio Granados and Francisco Dougherty, Alcantar said he looked at the buildings, where they were located and basically what the University consisted of. He said he was going back the next day to enroll. They stopped at a liquor store in Boulder to buy a six-pack of beer to drink on the way back to Denver, he said. Alcantar entered the store, bought the beer and returned. “I came back and started getting in the car...the next thing I know, the thing blows before I closed the door. I tried to get some of the guys out. I tried to pull one guy out and all I got out of there was his arm, the rest of his body was still there." While trying to get himself and other occupants out of the car, Alcantar burned his hand and leg. He eventually had to be pulled out of the car himself. Police harrassment Alcantar contends he has been harrassed and watched by the police since the bombings.“At night I’ve seen the police chopper over my pad .throwing the spotlight on my pad, to see if my car’s there or not. I’ve moved two or three places since I’ve been here, in Denver, and they find out where I’m at.” He said he's been stopped for traffic violations and before showing them any identification the policeman comes up to the window and says, “Antonio can I see your driver's license?” Grand Jury A Federal Grand Jury had been investigating the bombings for more than two years. Theonly witnesses called before the jury had been relatives and close friends of the six Chicanos killed in the bombings. Chicano activists say the Grand Jury is harrassing the Chicano community and only searching for information that can be used against the Chicanos. Veronica Vigil, former roommate of two of the bombing victims, is in the Denver County Jail. She said she will not talk to the grand jury and was jailed for the duration of the jury’s investigations, possibly three years.Photo by Rod FieldNow serving her fifth month in jail, Veronica Vigil still refuses to submit to the Grand Jury.Alcantar relaxing with his wife; remembers the shock and terror of that May night. “I came back and started getting in the car... next thing I know, the thing blows before I closed the door. l tried to pull one guy out and all I got was his arm.”