San Luis Valley, origin of many de la Razaby Edward AtenciioEditor's note: About 120 miles Southwest of Pueblo the Sari Juan and Sangre de Cristo mountain ranges dominate the scenery. Situated between these mountain ranges is a fertile valley known as San Luis. The majority of the inhabitants are Chicanos who are devoted to ranching and farming. Because of many years of isolation from progressive influence, San Luis Chicanos have stuck-fast to traditional ways. Cultural values, language and life in general remain virtually unchanged. The following article is the first of a series dealing with Chicano history in Colorado.Many Chicanos throughout the United Slates have their very foundation in the San Luis Valley. They have begun to realize that their history is not lost, but white-washed and hidden in back pages by Anglo text book writers. Contrary to what has been written, the Chicano is not new to the San Luis Valley he has been there 385 years.Mexican American colonists came north to settle the Conejos Land Grant which was given them by the Mexican Government in 1833. The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo guaranteed colonists a choice of citizenship and retention of their land. History shows, however, that none of the provisions have been met by the United States governnment. In fact, Chicanos have been shunned aside as second class citizens. Because of the Mexican American war, settlers did not come to the San Luis Valley until 1851. North they came from El Rito, New Mexico to settle the valley. Names of these colonists included Martinez, O’Cana, Lucero, Atencio, Valdez, Manzanares, Beubien, Ortega, Montoya, Chavez, Trujillo, Vigil, Quintana, Alarid, Lobato, Rael and Jacques. The settlement of San Jose, located Southeast of Del Norte, was founded by these colonists under the leadership of Don Juan Bautista Silva and Juan Maria Martinez. The settlement thrived because of a unique irrigation system. Various canals were dug to make farming and herding abundant. This all ended with the gold rush of 1859 as Anglo squatters took water rights away from the settlement. Chicano decendents of early settlers are not of pure Spanish or Mexican ancestory. They are a unique mixture of Navajo, Ute and Spanish origin. Many of the colonists had adopted Indian orphans or else kept a number of Indian captives. Many of these Indians were indoctrinated into the tradition of colonists. Thus, mixed marriages occured resulting in the modern day San Luis Valley Chicano. The end result was not a product of killings, rape, or other genocidal methods, but was a merger that produced the Mestizo. The bitter and sad chapter of this part of history is the White man’s removal of the Indian to wasteland reservations preventing further contact between the Mexican American and the Indian.