Bilingual-Bicultural budget slashed hardBy Kathy BooneColorado State Representative Paul Sandoval criticized past bilingual bicultural programs saying they were “Fouled-up” partly because teachers would devote only 15 to 20 minutes a day to the program. In June, the State Board of Education approved a bilingual bicultural grant of $165,583 after trimming twothirds from Denver’s original application of $481,582. Sandoval said that although the newly funded program would not reach as many Chicano children as is desirable, "it will by far be a better program that will also cover the cultural aspect—as programs have not done in the past.” The cuts will result in classes available only for kindergarten and first grade classes. Under the previous 1975 state law, schools which had a ten percent enrollment or over 50 students with linguistically different skills were required to have bilingual-bicultural programs. Colorado state Representative Leo Lucero outlined some of the provisions under the recent cutbacks. Lucero said that preference for enrollment will be given to students with linguistically different skills and culturally different environments. Standardized tests cannot be used to group or separate students.Another purpose of the program, Lucero said, is to assist students with adequate English skills in developing proficiency in another language and in understanding another culture. _ Most of those involved with the bilingual bicultural program believe that an affirmative effort must be made to seek, recruit and hire persons who share the culture and environment of the students. Many feel this is important because the child’s self concept is affected by interaction with teachers and language. Most believe that minority teachers are sometimes best able to communicate the encouragement and understanding needed by language minority children. Bilingual bicultural education has long been an issue in Chicano affairs. In the past,* Chicano children have been denied the right of education. Because a large number of Chicano children spoke mostly Spanish and very little English, an immediate lingual-cultural barrier was formed. As a result Chicano children were labeled ana stereotyped as stupid, lazy and unwilling to work with other students and teachers alike. The educational system further crushed Chicano students by giving them standardized tests which hardly pertained to the Chicano culture or language. With the recent cutbacks, Chicano educators feel that this is just the beginning. The struggle has just begun to develope the necessary programs for Chicanos.