AIM members criticize medicine man’s incarcerationLeonard Crow Dog is a medicine man of the Lakota Nation and a spiritual leader of the American Indian Movement (AIM). He surrendered to federal marshals on June 22 in Rapid City, South Dakota after losing a hard fought legal battle for his freedom. Since then, AIM members have been asking, “Would the average doctor or clergyman be sent to prison under similar circumstances?” Denver AIM members held a press conference recently to air their dissatisfaction over Crow Dog’s incarceration. They claim Crow Dog has been active in giving spiritual strength to people of all Indian tribes as well as aid to the sick and wounded. AIM is demanding “total unconditional amnesty” for him. Crow Dog has been shuffled in and out of five different federal prisons. At one point, while in prison, he was scheduled to undergo a lobotomy, (a treatment for some psychic disorders involving the cutting of certain nerve fibers in the brain.) The surgery was cancelled, however, after it was learned that Crow Dog had no knowledge of it and after an outside medical examinationindicated the lobotomy was unnecessary. Crow Dog’s case involves a number of court appearances —the first stemming from the Wounded Knee incident in 1973. Following the takeover he was arrested and charged with allegedly participating in the ousting of three postal inspectors during the occupation. Crow Dog was found guilty. He later appealed but a hearing on the matter was denied.Crow Dog’s defense team was certain of a retrial because of prior technical errors. The prosecution refused to release 60 photographs which the defense believed would have established Crow Dog’s innocence. The defense also complained that an FBI undercover agent had infiltrated the team and was making continuous reports on defense strategy. The defense argued that during a grand jury investigation the postal inspectors never mentionedCrow Dog and couldn’t even identify him. 2>/2 years later, however, during the trial the postal inspectors suddenly remembered who he was. His appeal denied, Crow Dog was given a five years probation sentence. About a month later Crow Dog was charged with violating the terms of his probation. Assault charges were filed after Crow Dog had had an altercation with a whiteman. Crow Dog later claimed thewhite-man had made some obscene gestures toward some Indian women. After Crow Dog’s appeal was denied in May, an order came from the court to surrender himself on May 13, 1976. Through the help of the National Council of Churches and Sanford Rosen of the defense team, a stay of the surrender order was obtained. Rosen petitioned the Supreme Court for Crow Dog to remain at liberty until a final decision was reached. Until this time, a provisional order was approved until the court decided on Rosen’s petition. All avenues exhaused. Crow Dog surrendered on June 22, 1976. AIM members are asking all non-Indians and “people with a conscience” to be aware of Crow Dog’s case. “The American Indian Movement is a spiritual movement which is an inspiration to many of our people. But, in order for us to have positive change, the US government agencies must stop their genocidal attacks on our people,” one member said.