Veronica won't give inVeronica Vigil has taught us a lesson of endurance by resisting the attacks that the system waged against her. By taking a firm stand and not compromising her principles and the safety of her people, she places our Movimiento totally out of the reach of the oppressor.Veronica Vigil’s stand, incomprehensible to some and puzzling to her prosecutors, corroborates the immense power that revolutionary commitment has over repression and brutality. With similar attitudes, many others have made it clear that regardless of how muchoppression might be exerted on people, the ideas cannot die. Esta hija del movimiento Chicano is facing now her fifth month of incarceration. The crime: her not yielding to the abuses of the F. 8.1. and its incestuous mistress, the grand jury. These "investigative” institutions chose our companera as a target, because through her, the F. 8.1. hoped to fish out information related to our Causa. The Boulder bombings, in which six of our own died, was the "legal” excuse used to approach Veronica Vigil—it could have been anybody else for that matter—to submit her to endless interrogations, aggressive and offensive. With confidence in herself and with her political ideas, clear in her mind, she chose to remain silent, demolishing with one blow, the tactics used against her and exposing what America tries so desperately to hide: corruption.Veronica Vigil’s confinement should serve the primary purpose, at this point, to expose in all its nakedness, the values that are being promoted and reinforced, at every level, In this "civilized” society. To name them would take more space than El Diario has in all its editions to come, so let us bring our attention back to Veronica Vigil, who is going on her fifth month of seclusion solely because she failed to bow to the arrogance of her persecutors. For us, her people, to know what it has been like for her to go through this nightmare, is almost as difficult as it is for her to communicate, in all its intensity, the degree of degradation to which she is subjected every day. In an attempt to do so, Veronica Vigil speaks, to teach us about the nature of her struggle; the struggle of all Chicanos. Veronica Vigil Defense Committee