UFW continues struggle, for fair electionsThe people of California will decide during the upcoming November 2nd election if farmworkers will be guaranteed collective bargaining rights under the law. For 40 years growers have opposed any kind of legislation to give their workers any rights. In the mid-sixties Filipino farmworkers in Delano, California walked off the fields to strike for better working conditions, wages, the ban of child labor, and the establishment of a retirement plan. Within a few days the Cesar Chavez lead National Farmworkers of .America (today’s United Farmworkers of American UFW) offered their support. By 1970 the strikes and pickets produced UFW contracts with local growers. An historic moment in agricultural-labor occurred. But, when these contracts expired in the spring of 1973, the growers signed with the Teamsters. The Teamsters Union is presently being used to hire workers for the fields. This union does not provide any of the benefits the UFW strives for. Again the strikes began and the picketlines went up. A period of legal restrictions on picketlines and physical abuse by Teamster employees followed. Two deaths resulted from this violence. Chavez called a halt to the bloodshed and began dispersing 500 farmworker families to 50major cities in the United States to begin organizing the communities and educate them on the boycotts of Gallo wines, head lettuce and grapes. Faced with a new situation, in 1972 the growers submitted Proposition 22, a law which would outlaw the most effective non-violent tool, the consumer boycott. Californians rejected it by a 60 percent majority. Moreover, in 1975 a Louis Harris poll revealed that 17 million American adults were honoring the grape boycott. During the past California gubernatorial campaign, Governor Edmund Brown pledged to initiate a law granting Farmworker secret ballot election. In May 1975 Brown held a meeting in Sacramento with nearly every grower’s organization in the state. They all waited for a reply from Chavez, if the UFW would accept a compromise farm labor law. The law accepted by Chavez became known as the Agricultural Labor Relations Act. This historic agreement brought about the birth of the Agricultural Labor Relations Board (ALRB). This board guaranteed free elections for the union of the workers choice. However, the large amount of elections and huge number of unfair labor practice charges complicated theALRB. Brown then appointed investigators and criminal attorneys to somewhat remedy the situation. But five months before expected, ALRB funds ran out. The UFW and Brown proposed a $3.8 million emergency fund to keep the ALRB functioning. Extensive lobbying in the legislature from growers and Teamsters killed the law only seven votes short of the necessary twothirds majority for passage. Of the 327 elections decided so far 68 per cent of the workers supported the UFW during elections held in Teamster controlled farms. What is left is that few elections were certified and fewer contracts signed. Trying to work through the legislature appeared fruitless, so the UFW decided to by-pass the Sacramento politicians and go directly to the people. At present the UFW has currently aquired 700,000 signatures to assure a Farmworker Initiative on the November 2 ballot. This Initiative would make a few changes in the existing law. Access to the field would be guaranteed to talk to workers during elections. The growers shouldn't dissapprove since Teamsters already are permitted. Also, growers would be required to supply lists of eligible voters, so that there would be no doubt about identities. Finally the law would force growers to pay damages on convicted labor practices.The symbols of the farmworkers struggle are seen and represented in all events that pertain to the fight against oppression. For example, here a youth holds a huelga flag at the Santa Fe anti bicentennial demonstration.