Teamsters strike against Coors
“Aside from worrying about an investment somewhere in the area of $550 million, Coors has people problems and refuses to recognize them." These were the words of Andris Cirkelis, a veteran truck driver and member of the Teamsters union as he spoke to about 50 people in the University Memorial Center Ballroom on January 30. Cirkelis lives in California where he and a beer drivers’ local have been on strike against the Coors company since 1973. At that time, Coors refused to re-negotiate a contract with the Local. Strikebreakers were brought in and allowed to vote on a matter concerning union representation. The result was a no-vote for Cirkelis’ union. Cirkelis urged people to get involved and do something positive about the things that effect us daily. He said that big businesses such as Coors are in the position to run things their way and the people turn out to be the losers. “I’ve 
chosen to be active,” he said. Cirkelis branded the fight against Coors as a “struggle against exploitation.” He believes one has to struggle and try to win instead of being a ' ‘fool or puppet, dangling from a string,”—Coors’ strings. He emphasized that big businesses are very powerful and run the country. Government only manages it, he said. And, who's fault is it? “It’s our fault,” Cirkelis said, “because we don’t speak out.” Pounding the lectern with his right hand he sternly advised, “It’s up to you to do it yourself.” Cirkelis contends that fellow Teamsters recognize and respect the United Farm Workers’ struggle and their fight for union representation. He did not rule out the presence of "goons” and "thugs” within the Teamsters union. He did say, however, that some members do sympathize with Farm Workers and have even appeared on picket lines as supporters.
Concerning Coors boycott activities, Cirkelis says “We’ve had tremendous results. Our accomplishments have hurt Coors.’’
Support from congressmen, legislators, church groups and other unions has resulted in a team effort, he said.
Alcantar said the grand jury hasn’t really investigated; “all they’re trying to do is say they're (the bombing victims) the ones who did it. I had six counts of murder and possession of dynamite against me...what they're saying is I planted the bomb, I put it in the car, I dusted the guys... Now what fm going to ask you is if I did plant the bomb, why would I get back In the car?” Alcantar said the grand jury will probably wait until the last month of the investigations, after they question everyone and realize no one will talk, to subpoena him. “I’ll probably go to jail because I know damn well I'm not going to talk to them.” This taped interview is available for everyone to hear. It can be checked out from El Diario office, University of Colorado, UMC 416, 492-8836.

