Greeley Chicanos angry over police intimidationby Joe ContrerasGreeley Chicanos are angry over what they claim has been continuous and increasing blantant discrimination and harrassment by Greeley police. At a June 29th press conference members from the Apostles for Justice in unity with the Greeley Chicano community condemned recent police and vigilante action at a June 26, Chicano dance, which resulted in 11 arrests and several injuries. Several Chicanos present at the dance claim police overreacted after arriving to break up a fight which had already ended. According to the witnesses, after the police arrived at the scene, they began to menace people with clubs and threats. One witness said a policeman shoved a billyclub up against her throat. Others said they were hit on their legs and back with the clubs. A number of the more than 500 people attending were maced and knocked down which apparently added to state of confusion.All the Chicano witnesses said that many of the police officers had no visible means of identification. Many did not have badges, police emblems or any other visible means* of identifying themselves with the police department.Because many of the supposed police officers never refered to themselves as Greeley police, but rather as the people’s police, Chicanos present believe the harrassment was, in part, the work of a “redneck vigilante group” operating in the Greeley areawith the cooperation of the Greeley police department. After the initial confrontation, ‘police’ told the crowd “this has been declared an unlawful assembly. You have two minutes to disperse or you will be arrested.”While community citizens were trying to convince the police to retreat so people could leave, all ‘officers’ were ordered to prepare riot gear and tear gas to disperse the crowd. The Chicanos were allowed to leave but many Chicanossaid their cars were stopped and searched on their way home. On Thursday July 1, the Greeley Chicano community held a meeting to discuss what could be done about this kind of repressive police action. The more than 100 community members agreed to press for the establishment of a citizens review board to act as a watchdog of police community actions. Jose Calderon, Apostles for Justice member, said the Greeley Chicano community will continue to fight against police injustices and will work with the Fort Collins and Brighton Chicano communities in their struggle against continual police harrassment in their areas.Chicano legal defense committee members explain Greeley’s problem with the local police. They said, "The Chicano community of Greeley, denounces the repressive act of the police department or any group that violates the democratic rights of the people."Greeley woman often suggestion concerning police end community relations. She also spoke against Illegal aliens commonly seen In and around Greeley.