FBI raids Chicano media centerStory courtesy of La Cucaracha 
The office of Producciones Estrella Roja, a non-profit community media center and parent organization of La Cucaracha was raided and files were confiscated by agents of the federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Labor (DOL) Sept. 23, in an unusual display of force. Two FBI agents together with three DOL investigators converged on the PER building at 1209 East Abriendo with a search warrant issued by the U.S. Magistrate in Denver to seize files related to the expenditure of federal funds by PER. PER was awarded a grant under the Comprehensive Training and Employment Act (CETA)¡¯s Title VI program this past spring. The $72,000 grant, entitled the Community Art Project,, began in the latter part of June, to provide employment for community artists. It is administered by the Pueblo Manpower Administration (PMA). However, the manner in which the search was conducted in light of the allegations left the staff of PER andother concerned gente with heavy doubts as to the real motivation behind the investigation. 
Why the FBI? "In light of the almost continuous revelations of fraud and corruption in the federal government these days that often involve huge sums of money, it remains to be seen as to why it took five people, including the FBI, to conduct an investigation of an agency the size of ours,¡± stated David Martinez, PER director. "It¡¯s obvious to me this investigation is more political in nature than what has been admitted by investigators. We have committed no crime, nor done anything illegal.¡±
 John Rincon, federal representative for the Pueblo County prime sponsorship, one of the DOL agents who took part in the search of PER files, told La Cucaracha that this was the "only one (investigation) of its type that I¡¯ve done." Rincon couldn¡¯t answer why he was called from Denver to participate in this particular investigation. Reese Davis, DOL administrative officer for employment and training, another investigator, cited privilege and internal procedures when asked about the FBI involvement and the participation of Rincon in the investigation. Davis said that while the DOL and the FBI do work together at times, ¡°it is unusual to the extent that it doesn¡¯t happen too often,¡± when questioned on the frequency of such cooperativeness. Neither Davis nor Rincon could cite a similar type DOL-FBI investigation in Southern Colorado. , Ransom Whittle, FBI special agent who presented the search warrant to Martinez, told La Cucaracha to write to the attorney general in Washington, D.C. for information regarding the Investigation. However, he stated his office was waiting for a written report from a just completed DOL audit to present to the U.S. attorney who 'will decide to press charges, take the case to a grand jury, or dismiss it.John Romero, PMA director, refused comment on the investigation because it is not completed. He said he would be "more than happy to answer any questions once the investigation is completed. "This is just another in a series of unwarranted investigations going on here in Pueblo,¡± Martinez said. "This particular project was barely three months old when they took our files. The amount of money they¡¯re questioning is miniscule, yet it took five of them to collect our files. They¡¯re not telling us everything." ¡°Once again you find that any community-based organization that is trying to do something productive with the community quickly becomes the target of investigations and harassment by federal agencies who view them as a threat.¡± Martinez said that some PER funding had been effected by the investigation. but ¡°the entire operation here will continue. The real loss is the suffering of staff and their families due to unfounded charges and ruthless politics.¡±