The Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union (ACTWU) has launched a nationwide consumers boycott against the J. P. Stevens Company. The boycott has the complete support of the AFL-CIO and others in the trade union industry. The J. P. Stevens Company, the nations second largest textile manufacturer, was founded in Massachusetts in 1813; employs 44,000 workers in 85 plants located primarily in North and South Carolina; and like most of the textile industry, has concentrated their production in the south to take advantage of lower wages, lower taxes, energy costs and the lack of unionization. Their gross sales in 1976 were approximately 14 billion with a net income of 41 million. Stevens has been found guilty of 15 National Labor Relations Board NLRB cases since 1963. A United States District Court judge has ruled that the company management in Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina has been guilty of a series of discriminatory employment practices against black workers in hiring, job assignments, layoffs and in wage rates. - In Wallace, South Carolina in 1973 the company was charged with wire tapping of a union organizers motel room. The union filed suit against Stevens and the company decided not to defend itself and paid $50,000 to settle the suit. This money went to the strikers. While textile workers are being afflicted with (brown lung) cancer, the Stevens Company is ignoring safety standards on amounts of cancerous dust in factories. Wages in the Stevens plant average 31% below the national average factory wage. The company has been ordered to reinstate or reimburse 289 workers with over $l3 million in back pay. Chairman of the Board of J.P. Stevens, James D. Finleys salary for 1976 was $184,375 plus an incentive bonus of $184,300 for a grand total of $368,675. Strikers are asking J. P. Stevens products not be purchased. Sheets and pillow cases are sold under the following names: Beauti-blend ; Beautiscale; Fine Arts; Tastemaker; Utica; Utica & Mohawk; Towels Fine Arts; Tastemaker; Utica. Blankets' Baby Stevens; Forstmann, Utica; Carpets Contender; Gulistan; MerryWeather; Tastemaker.