For Indians: Injustice, away of life

by Martina Octavia

In the winter of 1890, U.S. Government forces massacred nearly 300 Indian people, mainly women and children, after they had surrendered all but one of their weapons. The site of the massacre was Wounded Knee on the Pine Ridge Reservation. In the winter of 1973, several hundred Oglala Sioux and supporters from other tribes returned to Wounded Knee to make a stand. They did so at the request of the Oglala traditional leaders, after all other means of changing conditions on the reservation had been exhausted. This began the epic 71 day Siege of Wounded Knee 11. This stand on Indian land for Indian rights was met by the Nixon Administration with a $7,000,000 military retaliation against the People. For 71 days no Federal office or Bureau of Indian Affairs official had any jurisdiction in Wounded Knee. For 71 days, despite the U.S. Government’s blockade of food, fuel and medical supplies, a self-governing community was built; the Independent Oglala Nation was born. Instead of attempting to retake the village by military assault, the Government tried the tactics of siege warfare, trying to starve the people into negotiating a surrender while keeping up the pressure by continually shooting into the village from the surrounding hills for ten weeks. Those that occupied Wounded Knee believed that there would be a change and that change would put an end to the genocide of their people. Alcohol, drugs, poverty, depression, fear, the blatant killing of their people are all a part of everyday life. They hoped to see the end of oppression, repression and suppression by a dominant system totally opposed to their culture and needs. This was their stand against the systematic destruction of native and natural peoples. They believed that change would restore their humanity and restore humanity to the United States of America. During and after the occupation, 428 persons were arrested. Less than a dozen have been convicted on charges stemming from Wounded Knee. However, the strategy of the U.S. Government was not so much to win convictions as it was to tie up the American Indian Movement, it’s supporters, funds, energies and time in the courtroom rather than to have it working for social change for native peoples. AIM members have been jailed, harassed, beaten, shot and killed. Crow Dog - 34 years old, is a traditional Lakota-speaking spiritual leader of the Rosebud Sioux Reservation in the Dakotas. For generations, the Crow Dog family has been traditional leaders in the struggle to preserve their people’s land, language, religion and culture. In 1967 they marched with Martin Luther King, Jr., in a civil rights demonstration. In 1971, the founders of the American Indian Movement asked Crow Dog to be their spiritual leader. AIM was founded to protect Indian people from police harassment and to provide educational centers for the study of native culture. Crow Dog and his religious ceremonies provided a traditional spiritual center for the movement. Crow Dog and other traditional leaders, prayed and worked to prevent the wholesale butchering of the men, women and children inside Wounded Knee 11. During the confrontation, four postal inspectors entered the village and were arrested by security forces, who took them to a building where Crow Dog was. Crow Dog lectured the four on Indian rights, and had them safely escorted out of the occupied zone. All four have testified Crow Dog had not harmed them. Crow Dog was arrested and indicted for “interfering with federal officers” and listed as one of the “seven leaders” the U.S. has singled out for exemplary treatment. The all-white jury handed down a guilty verdict, and Crow Dog was sentenced to eleven years in federal prison. In January, 1976, Crow Dog was again brought into court on assault

charges. Again, he was charged with assault, convicted by a white judge and white jury and sentenced to another five-year term. As 1976 came to an end, Crow Dog was in Terre Haute, Indiana, in a maximum security prison. Crow Dog says that the prison experience has left deep scars on him, physically and psychologically. He described the inhumane treatment and the harassment he has been subjected to. Someone had caused him to believe he had a brain tumor and would have to undergo surgery. He had been kept in solitary confinement for weeks in a cell so small he could not stand upright, with almost no light and no exercise. Crow Dog said this was punishment for having talked over the phone to a relative in his own language. He spoke of the friendship he had received from other inmates, often totally forgotten & helpless, at the mercy of the prison system. He told of seeing a murdered inmate a few feet away, his throat split from ear to ear. The National Council of Churches Governing Board passed a resolution saying it was “particularly appalled at the severity with which Leonard Crow Dog has been pursued, prosecuted, imprisoned and victimized for what were, at most, minor offenses, suggesting that his real offense has been to lend spiritual force and dignity to the struggle for Indian rights. This religious leader has been persecuted and harassed by the U.S. Government beyond any deserving in fact, he should be honored and respected, rather than imprisoned.” Why is the United States Government trying too hard to subdue one non-violent Sioux Medicine Man? Why is the Government spending so much time, money and energy to put behind bars the defenders of Wound ed Knee II? The answer is quite simple. There is gold in the Black Hills and other native nation lands oil and coal and natural gas and uranium and water and choice farmlands. The danger this medicine man represents is the moral and spiritual message he brings to the people; his cry to defend the land. Crow Dog’s weapon against the exploitation of his people is his spiritual leadership. It would be much more difficult to capitalize on and defeat a strong, unified people. Crow Dog is just one example of victimization endured by the native peoples of this land. Russell Means, Dennis Banks, Leonard Peltier, Carter Camp, Dino Butler, Bob Robideau, Paul Skyhorse, Richard Mohawk, Dacajewiah, Nelson Small Legs, Jr., Michael Weston, James Weddell The list goes on and on.

Four postal inspectors temporarily detained

Leonard Crow Dog