Affirmative action rests on Bakke decisionThe U.S. Supreme Court began hearing arguments on the Allan Bakke case October 12 with the future of Affirmative Action programs and the civil rights gains of the 60¡¯s at stake. Bakke sued the University of California at Davis medical school on the ground his race kept him out, since the University reserved for disadvantaged minorities 16 of the 100 places for beginning students. Prior to the establishment of an Affirmative Action program at Davis in 1969 there were virtually no minorities in the medical school. Not a single Chicano or Black was in the class entering in 1968. Besides a C + grade average, Davis also takes test scores, recommendations and the comments of personal interviews into consideration for its regular admissions program. There is no standard written procedure and school officials have stated judgements to some extent are subjective. While all but 16 of the 100 places for each class are filled that way, the remaining spots are judged with minority applicants against each other. However the dean of the medical school at Davis haslestilied that whether students come through either admission process, all are ¡°fully qualified for admission and will in the opinion of the admissions committee, contribute to the school and profession¡±. The government believes Bakke¡¯s claim to be a victim of reverse discrimination cannot be judged on the record as it stands. No court has yet proved if Bakke would have been admitted to Davis if all applicants, Black and White were competing in a single pool. With two of every 100 doctors in the United StatesBlack and that Black communities are in desperate need of medical services, there is undoubtedly a need for encouraging more Black and other minority doctors. Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Joseph Califano believes ¡°that as a society we have a constitutional and moral obligation to encourage and give preferential treatment to minorities. Without a preferential treatment program in colleges, minorities will never be scientists, doctors or lawyers in this country as they should be¡±.The case has received great attention with a believed record number 58 amicus briefs filed, showing the interest of many groups in the outcome. It could be months before the court is able to relay the critical decision which could destroy any gains made by minorities in the past. So until the Supreme Court ruling is handed down sometime next spring the future of minorities in higher education rests in the hands of the nine justices, which has only one Black member.