The UFW: What next

Last March the United Farm Workers (UFW) of America and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ended their ten year feud over who would organize California’s 240,000 farm workers. Even though the UFW gained control of the fields, a few problems await this young union. Adversity has been in the path of Cesar Chavez's UFW union since he began small scale organizing back in the late sixties. Chavez was successful in making many farm workers realize they no longer had to live according to their employer’s wishes, but to band together to control their own destinies.

Grower attempts to destroy the UFW, sometimes violently, were exposed to the public by Chavez’ ingenious planning, thus gaining the people’s support. What followed was a mass boycott of table grapes forcing growers to negotiate with the UFW. 

Until 1973 the UFW had proven to be the most successful farm labor union to date with 50,000 members. Then the Teamsters began recruiting farm workers as members. “Sweetheart contracts” signed without the workers’ approval, were negotiated between the growers and Teamsters. Later the UFW would lose 100 contracts to the Teamsters.

That summer in the California fields would end in 4,000 UFW members arrested and two deaths due to UFWTeamster conflicts. Only 10,000 workers were under UFW membership in comparison to the Teamsters 50,000 members at summer’s end. During this period many long time UFW supporters predicted the union’s doom. However Chavez and his faithful group struggled on. 1975 brought a major breakthrough when growers and the Teamsters agreed to farm labor elections to decide which union the workers preferred. During this six month span 400 elections were held with the UFW winning 70 percent. 

These turns of events prompted the growers to pour money into an antiProposition 14 campaign which prevented the UFW from putting a farm labor election law into the state constitution during the past November 3 elections. However Proposition 14 was successful in further publicizing the plight of the farm worker. 

The UFW at this time had many law suits against the Teamsters, many stemming from charges of UFW members being beaten by Teamster employees. $2O million in court cost were estimated for both unions, proving very costly for the Teamsters. On the other hand, many young, enthusiastic lawyers volunteered their services at little or no cost reducing the UFW’s expenditures. 

Negotiations between the UFW and the Teamsters began last December resulting in the March agreement. This pact will leave all jurisdiction between growers and farm workers solely in the hands of the UFW, while the Teamsters will deal only with cannery workers, farm truck drivers and other non-field laborers. 

Chavez now will, begin to concentrate on informing the workers to unionize, and battle the growers if necessary.

One company still under Fire is Gallo. Gallo has still refused to sign a UFW contract. Currently the UFW has a membership of 20,000 but an additional 10,000 are expected by year’s end. 

The problem facing the UFW at the moment deals with the young union’s ability to solve their organizational and administrative drawbacks. Present problems are reminiscent of the period after the first victories in the late 60’s when the Teamsters signed 100 previous UFW contracts. 

The democratic process used in the UFW makes organizing difficult. All UFW contracts rely on the workers themselves to negotiate. Despite these possible setbacks, the union is patient and strong behind the dedicated Chavez.