New UMAS chairperson stress more participationDear Brothers and Sisters; As newly elected Chairman of UMAS, I would like to relate my views and feelings, in hopes of creating a better understanding of our interests. First, I¡¯d like to give a brief history of my background. I was born in the San Luis Valley, and raised in Colorado Springs. 1 first became involved in the Chicano movement in 1970 and have worked with several organizations since then. 1 have always believed in the ¡°familia¡± concept of the movement, brothers and sisters working together as such. Adopting the ¡°familia¡± concept brings people closer together, creates more trust, and assures equal input for everyone. I have stated that 1 will serve at this capacity, only if I am representing the interests of the majority of students. 1 strongly believe that all decisions should be in the best interest of the majority. I am sincerely asking all Chicano students on campus, that you comeforward with your ideas and input, and help make UMAS more productive for all of us. It really is true that UMAS is only what we make it. Sure it¡¯s going to be weak if we don¡¯t support it. It¡¯s very easy to sit back and criticize the organization. It¡¯s the actual day to day work that is the challenge. For too long our people have complained and suffered. The time is long over due for our people to unite at a national level, and bring about more positive changes. But first we must start at home and educate one another. We must find out why so many older students are not as involved, and why they appear to be so apathetic. Just because certain things have failed in the past, or personal vibes have not been cool, we cannot afford to sit back and coast. It seems we give up too easy, too often. We shouldn¡¯t attack each other¡¯s faults, but rather support one another¡¯s abilities. It is important that we reach out to the masses of the students and try to getthem involved in our common struggles and issues. Let¡¯s start a new trend and reach out to all our hermanos y hermanas. Show them that we really do care and want their support. In closing 1 would like to stress to everyone that UMAS has a new light, let¡¯s work to brighten it to its fullest. As Chairman, I hope to work for, and represent, the students in their best interests. If you would like to reach me, I am usually in the UMC/UMAS office Room 187, in the morning hours till 12:30 p.m. Feel free to drop by and rap, or I can be reached at 4922187(home #) Sinceramente Tu Hermano, Leandro Serrano UMAS-ChairmanLeandro Serrano, new ly elected chairperson for UM AS is optimistic of the future of UMAS.