Texas La Raza Unida Texas and federal officials are out to destroy La Raza Unida party in Zavala county. By trying to kill a federal funded community owned farm project, outside officials hope to end the Raza Unida control of this country. The state revoked a charter of incorporation of the Zavala County Economic Development Corporation. This two year old corporation was awarded a 1.5 million grant for a thousand acre farm to be run by the poor. The entire idea of the farm is to create employment for Crystal City residents, who would normally travel out of state for work in the fields. These farm corporation laborers do not mind field work, but detest the substandard and unhuman conditions occuring in other farms. The corporation farm pays $2.50 an hour, double the minimum wage of a Texas farm worker. This project is being used to put capital into the hands of the poor. Its a capitalistic venture but the poor benefit. The corporations president is Jose Angel Gutierrez, founder of Crystal Citys La Raza Unida Party. The party and the corporations books have been under intensive investigation by many government agencies. The subcommittee on Government Operations and the U.S. General Accounting Office have reviewed the corporation's books carefully finding only routine bookkeeping mistakes. This continual badgering of the corporation, appears to be a crusade to discredit the Raza Unida Party and eventuall) bring about it's end. Local wealthy ranchers have also provided problems for the Raza Unida politicians in Zavala county. Dissatisfied with the Raza Unida having control of the county, many have filed suit against the county concerning tax assessments. When the Raza Unida won the county administration, they discovered tax evasions by many ranchers. When the new administration reassessed the true value of these properties, the taxes rose and the ranchers filed suit. Due to the suit, the ranchers tax payments have been held back and Zavala county could face bankruptcy without this tax money.