The Bakke Opinion: Inspect it, Dissect it, Reject itIn the summer of 1973, Allan Bakke, a white 35-year-old engineer who had been denied admission to UC Davis Med School, informed the University that he was considering a lawsuit based on age or racial discrimination. On July 18, Peter Storandt, an assistant dean of the medical school at UC Davis, responded. Storandt¡¯s letter denied discrimination on the basis of age, while encouraging Bakke to research ¡°admissions policies based on quota-oriented minority recruiting.¡± He wrote: ¡°I don¡¯t know whether you would consider our procedure to have the overtones of a quota or not, certainly its design has been to avoid any such designation, but the fact remains that most applicants to such a program are members of ethnic minority groups.¡± Storandt then referred Bakke to the DeFunis case, in which an unsuccessful white, male lawschool applicant filed suit challenging the law school¡¯s minority admissions program. ¡°While the case is on appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court at this time, the immediate practical result two years ago was a lower court-ordered admission for the plaintiff.¡± The dean finally referred Bakke to two attorneys expert in medical jurisprudence. Taking Storandt¡¯s cue, Bakke promptly sued Storandt¡¯s employer in the case of Bakke v. Regents of the University of California, and the California Supreme Court found the special admissions program at Davis unconstitutional. While the University ¡°lost¡± the case, the real losers are minorities who may soon be excluded from professional schools. Representatives of those minorities have charged the University with inadequate representation of their interests. The NAACP, in an amicus brief filed when the University¡¯s petition for a rehearing of Bakke was pending before the California Supreme Court, asked the Court to open the case for intervenors representing minority groups by remanding the case to trial court. That petition was refused. The Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund, along with other civil rights groups and the Lawyers Guild, has filed a brief with the U.S. Supreme Court asking that the court refuse to issue certiorari, on the grounds that there is no real ¡°case or controversy¡± as required by Article 111 of the Constitution, and that the trial record is wholly inadequate to adjudicate such an important issue. Due to its own conflict of interest, the University failed to defend the lawsuit on a grund which was sure to win: justifying the special admissions program on the basis of the University¡¯s prior discrimination. As Law Professor Charles Lawrence wrote, in the Winter 1976 edition of the Guild Practitioner, ¡°Such a defense would have constituted an admission that would have subjected the defendant to legal attack by minority students who had been denied admission. Additionally, institutions, just as individuals, find it difficult to recognize and accept their own racism.¡± Even the court noted this conflict of interest, ¡°Admittedly neither the University nor Bakke would have had an interest in raising such a claim (of previous discrimination by the University). But this fact alone would not justify us in making a finding on a factual matter not presented below.¡± Moreover, the court¡¯s decision was explicitly based on the University¡¯s failure to meet its burden of proof. It did not attempt to prove that there were no alternative means which would achieve the same goals without an overt racial classification. It failed to demonstrate that the MCAT was discriminatory, despite available evidence of cultural bias in thtf test, a bias which even the testing service has now admitted. Despite the University¡¯s heavy burden under the strict scrutiny test, it failed to put on even one word of oral testimony: no testimony at all was taken from expert witnesses, students, or members of minority communities. The University based its entire case on the pleadings, interrogatories, and the deposition of the chairman of the admissions committee at Davis medical school. The resulting record made it easy for the California Supreme Court to sustain the trial court¡¯s decision. They simply pointed out what the defendant had failed to show. Outright collusion was unnecessary to reach this result. The defendant University is a large and wealthy state corporation, supported by taxes, military and scientific research contracts, and corporate investments. UC¡¯s record on racism has not been exemplary. It has recently resisted federal orders to institute affirmative action employment programs. It has been unwilling to sell its shares of corporations investing in apartheid South Africa, and has refused to exercise its proxy vote against such racist ties. To this day, administrative leadership at all levels of UC remains almost entirely white. And it was not until the late 1960 s that the University, under intense political pressure, agreed to adopt affirmative action programs for minority students. The University Corporation has lost nothing in losing Bakke. The minority admissions programs are far more difficult to administer than quantitive admissions criteria, and these programs undoubtedly reduce endowments by producing less wealthy alumni. Furthermore, there has been opposition to the program from professional school faculty who believe that minority admissions lower the ¡°quality¡± of the school. Finally, the University¡¯s counsel and administrators, the plaintiff, and the court were of course all white, bourgeois and male. They acted in a manner reflecting those interests, and inevitably a result was reached which protected the white male bourgeoisie. In defending the decision, Mosk wrote that ¡°human nature suggests a preferred minority will be no more willing than others to relinquish an advantage once it is bestowed.¡± Those are ironic words in a decision establishing the right of the professional elite to refuse to share its cake with other races.