Aaron Two Elk believes he is the latest victim of the F.8.1.s attempt to discredit and destroy the American Indian Movement (AIM). Two Elk claims he was framed on a charge of first degree assault, and that F. 8.1. interference into the matter appears to make the issue a political one. Two Elk, a member of the Lakota Nation has been active in* the AIM organization and has been under surveilance by the F. 8.1. Gary Wayne Larkin, who is Anglo and Two Elks former brother-in-law, accused Two Elk of attacking him, until he was unconscious. The weapons used in the incident which occurred March 24, 1976, were shoes. Larkin alleges that serious bodily injury resulted from the attack. Larkins friends, wife, father-in-law and physician all testified on Larkin's behalf. However their testimony is questionable and only circumstantial evidence. Larkin did not produce any actual witness to the alledged assault. The Marshall of Firestone, Colorado testified when he arrived on the scene he found both men calm and Larkin not injured in any way. Larkin at. the time refused to press charges and serious bodily injury and all, gave Two Elk a ride to Denver some 40-50 miles away. Despite these discrepancies an all white jury found Two Elk guilty at the end of the two day trial. Judge Hugh H. Arnold of Weld County District Court sentenced Two Elk to an indeterminate sentence not to exceed 3 years and 4 months in the Colorado State Prison. In Judge Arnolds closing statement he revealed his knowledge of Two Elks involvement in AIM, and violent acts by AIM. He concluded Two Elk was a violent man and violence must be punished. Judge Arnold stated he was punishing Two Elk for his crime against Larkin and not for involvement in AIM. There are many elements in this case which support the idea of Two Elk being imprisoned politically. Larkin alledges the assault occurred March 24, 1976, but did not pursue charges until a week later. The charge at the time was reckless endangerment , a misdemeanor. Not until a month later did Larkin raise the charge to first degree assault, a felony. After the Pine Ridge incident where two F. 8.1. agents were killed, the bureau made several visits to Colorado concerning Two Elk. Larkin was one person visited, as was Two Elks employer. Later Two Elk lost his job. During the April 6, 1976 Senate Subcommittee hearings on revolutionary activities within the United States, the American Indian Movement, the testimony of only one witness, Douglas Durham was allowed. Durham an F.8.1./C.I.A. operative spied on AIM and labeled AIM a terrorist organization with communist ties all over the world. During this hearing to discredit AIM, Two Elk and others were named. During Two Elks actual arrest, an eight man S.W.A.T. team stormed his home. In the holding tank before being booked Special Agent Edward Zacharias of the Ft. Collins F. 8.1. questioned Two Elk on the whereabouts of many AIM members. Ironically many of the members sought were already imprisoned or deceased. Two Elks refusal to cooperate left him sitting in jail. Larkin has had a history of provoking Two Elk since September of 1975. Larkins ex-wife, Two Elks sister, came to reclaim her children after Larkin failed to return them at the end of a summer visit, as previously agreed. Apparently Larkin sought revenge by antagonizing Two Elk after his ex-wife departed. Larkins attempts at disrupting the home and family of Two Elk took on many forms of harrassment according to a family member. At the moment Two Elk is appealing the case. He has obtained a document from Larkin stating Larkin believes he is in no danger from Two Elk. This document could reduce Two Elks sentence and a possible parole. However, Two Elks brother, Richard, who is involved in gaining his brothers release, told El Diario some new complications in the case regarding officials at the prison giving false reports on Two Elks behavior there could hurt any chance of an earlier release.