Circulation of mock application ignites protestNorth Denver Parents and concerned community members have protested the distribution of a mock minority application which contained derogatory slurs directed at Chicanos and Blacks attending Skinner Junior High School. The application was first distributed by Jon Baier, an industrial arts teacher. Baier has been formally reprimanded for the action he took concerning the application by Denver Public School officials. But concerned parents who are spearheading the protest of the distribution of the application feel that this formal reprimanding is only a slap on the hand to those teachers who were involved. They feel that more action should be taken, and the teachers involved be fired. Phil Herrera, an outspoken parent and concerned community member has indicated the feeling that he and other North Denver parents have concerning such action. Herrera read a statement from the chicano community, speaking before a Boulder audience. "Instead of firing Baier, our superintendent slaps Baier¡¯s hand with a reprimand and tells the staff of the Denver Schools that they should be socially aware andsensitive. . . We are not here to make racists sensitive or socially aware, but here to get them out of our school.¡± In reviewing the matter Herrera noted that the community was not protesting the racism of this one teacher, but rather the long history of racism towards chicanos and minorities from the Denver Public Schools. Four demands have been drawn up by the community, and they feel that their demands are final. There is no room for complacency in the struggle, indicated a press release by the community. The first demand is the immediate firing of Mathes, the school principal at Skinner, Baier and James Curran, a reading teacher who was reportedly saying that he brought the document to the school. The second demand is to end the harassment of chicanos and other minority students, number three, democratic right to quality education for all students, and the fourth, continued amnesty for all students who choose to boycott classes. Latest developments were indicated to El Diario by Herrera: Mathes has taken a leave of absence. It seems that he accumulated sick leave, and to ensure his retirement, he has left Skinner and is on leave until June.