By Manuel Acardia
Since the Comite Consejero met for the first time in October of 1976, some developments have taken place which must be discussed to understand where Chicano Studies is going and how the Comite helps in its direction. The Comite was formed with the sole purpose to provide Chicano Studies with input from students, faculty, and community; to aid in the decisions that affect the evolution of the program as a whole. One of preoccupations of the Comite is to search for ways to expand academically, including dynamic courses to be taught by conscientious professors as well as to remind University supervisors of the fact that, our students have a right to walk out of this university with a major in Chicano Studies, just like students have the right to do so from any other department, and to get from the university full recognition and departmental status. To achieve this, the program needs to be synchronized to formulate its demands. El Comite with the participation of Chicanos from inside and outside the university, works to build up the basis for this development. El Comite is formed by seven faculty members, seven students, and seven community members. El Comite is now recruiting for new faculty. Presently, Mexican-American Studies has three full-time professors. One more will be recruited for the next academic year. To fill this position a Ph.D., or near completion is required. El Comite is accepting applications without specifying any particular subjects to be taught. The option is left open so as to attract as many applicants as possible, who might fit the needs of our program in total, academically and movement wise. El Comite has also moved unanimously to search for a new director. Mexican-American studies has been operating under Professor Thomas Martinez, appointed intermim director when Professor Jesus Luna resigned, in August of 1976. The selection for this important position will also be done during the remaining of the Spring Semester. The Comite, the speaking body of the Chicano community at Boulder campus is concerned to move, and to move fast. The position in which Chicanos are, in regards to university, facultative and administrative structures is weak. The answer, lies in our own strength and how we put it to use. El Comite, is an attempt to gather momentum, but the Comite, without the conscientious effort of all its members to work for the movement of our people has the validity of a broken treaty. That the Comite functions in an advisory capacity should not discourage us. This doesnt mean that we must forever be deprived of the right to govern ourselves; the right to formulate policies relevant to our needs. It is healthy to work with all people. It is not to be under no one. Presently, Chicanos in this university are the cabus of the train! The decisions made by the Comite have great impact in the lives of many, of present and future students the range of these decisios reach far beyond our immediate present. Who decides, for instance, what courses are to be taught? El Comite. Who decides who is to be hired, or fired? El Comite. Who decides to reappoint current professors, as has been the most recent case, that of Professor Manuel Naranjo, El Comite. Who protects students and faculty against the inefficacies of the university and of each other? El Comite. In synthesis, consolidating our power and centering it constructively, is the key to the formulation of Chicano policies. That, again, is El Comite. Another example. Should el Coraite hire a, wrong individual for any of the vacant posts, students, three, four, or five years from now, are going to be paying the consequences of this mistake, since both, the directorship and the faculty positions are tenure track, meaning that, the initial contract is signed for a three-year period. Once you get the wrong kind of person, youre stuck! El Diario Representation at the Comite de Estudios Chicanos. The possible approval of George Rivera tenure is a major topic of concern at Tuesday nights Comile meeting. At press time a vole was being taken by the sociological department on tenure for Rivera. Results were not immediately available.