KFSC to be soldThe Sale of Denver's Spanish radio station, KFSC, appears to be inevitable, despite a year long controversy regarding the management of the Paco Sanchez Sr. estate which owns the station, and the Latino Broadcasting Corporation which has offered to buy the station. Richard Lesko, who was appointed successor executor of the Paco Sanchez Sr. estate on behalf of the First National Bank of Denver said he sees no way to avoid selling the building which houses KFSC facilities. The approximate indebtedness of the estate currently is $500,000. The original indeptness of the estate was $175,000. Inheritance and capital gains taxes, along with executor and attorney's fees, increased the indebtedness and have forced the sale of other properties of the estate. "So far we have only had to sell minor portions of the estate", Lesko said, "We sold the theater on Broadway and some stock in the estate." Lesko said there was little he could do to keep the station in the hands of its heirs. Our obligation is to sastify the debts of the estate and the only way we see of doing that is to sell KFSC. The Latino Broadcasting Corporation has offered to buy the station, but many community citizens questioned the credibility of the corporation. Many letters of protest and petitions were sent to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) urging the commission to deny the license transfer to Latino Broadcasting because of inaccuracies in their application for the license along with questionable methods in obtaining financing. Ed Romero, President of Latino Broadcasting Corporation, told El Diario that, many of the fears of the Spanish speaking community are unfounded. "No one has really asked what it is we are doing in purchasing the station," he said. "We expect to have the license to operate transferred to us within a month. We will perform a progressive, responsible job that we believe tha Latino community will approve of." Romero said all the complaints and petitions to deny made with the FCC have been dismissed in favor of the Latino Broadcasting Corporation. The reason being, Romero said was because "We went to the FCC with a strong application." Romero said he would build a station that will be responsible to the communities needs and concerns. Many listeners of KFSC expressed concern that if Latino took over KFSC they would bring people in from out of state who are not familiar with the Denver Chicano Community as was Paco Sanchez Sr., who founded the station 23 years ago. They also said because 50 percent of the stock of Latino Broadcasting is owned by seven wealthy Anglos, they would have controlling interest, four Chicanos own 20 percent of the stock. 30 percent is owned by the Minority Enterprize Business Investment Corporation. Romero said that 32 percent of the stock would become available in five years, and that stock would be purchased by the Chicanos who currently own the 20 percent of the stock. "I guarantee it", Romero said. Romero said he would have liked to have the corporation be 100 percent Latino owned but "There just are not that many Latinos in this area who can provide the kind of financial backing needed to support that kind of venture". "The people we will be bringing in will be from out of town but they will be professional jSpanish speaking Latinos who will study the needs and concerns of the community through surveys and involvement with the community. You can't find those kind of professional individuals in this area," Romero said. "We have acertained the community and have found two major areas of concern to latinos in this area", Romero said, "Employment and education. As a result we will be taking a strong aim at these concerns. We will be providing a bilingual program that will be aired specifically for children, like Sesame Street, and a job placement service," Romero said.KFSC at 2815 Broadway was Denver's first and only Spanish language radio station for 23 years. The station will soon be sold to the Latino Broadcasting Corporation.