Fight for Chilili-land grant takeover attempted
As one icsident said, It will take the killing of every man, woman and child in Chilili to stop us from fighting for what is rightfully ours. On September 1, 1976 over 30 armed residents of Chilili, New Mexico, blocked and halted development of a road which crossed near the village and which would have opened up the area for more development, more tourists, more people moving in and the eventual destruction of the traditional way of life of the Chicano people of Chilili along with the destruction of the village itself. Signs had been posted warning the state and land developers that the road was a land grant road and not a public road to serve La Jara Estates, a land development which is abusing the natural resources of nearby Chilili. Despite a restraining order the selling of the remaining 5,000 acres of common lands to a developers from Alaska was prevented. This road is the life line to Chilili residents and to lose it to the control of one man could be very damaging. Chilili is located in the mountains 35 miles Southeast of Albuquerque. It was originally a Land Grant of 41,486 acres grated to 20 families in 1841 by the Mexican government. The grant
was confirmed by an act of Congress in 1858 and the villagers right to govern and manage the grant in the traditional way was protected by the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidaigo (1848). This international treaty between Mexico and the U.S. and which both countries were to respect and enforce, was violated through violence by the U.S. government against the Chicano people. Instead of protecting the one billion acres in land grants, they used the army, courts, and land-grabbers to
steal the rest from the Chicano people. They forced Chicanos from the land by burning homes, killing sheep, plundering crops, and many times by outright murder. The U.S. government occupied by gun point the land and recognized only 3% of the land grants. The U.S. government also violated the treaty by imposing land taxes on the grants and its common lands. This led to people paying the taxes with land from the grant. Many times land fell into the hands of the state which
eventually became forest lands or the property of foreigh capitalists. Chilili, in 1942 had its grant transferred to a private corporation, Chilili Cooperative Association, for the purpose of getting a FHA loan to start cooperative type projects to earn money for "delinquent taxes to the state. As soon as the loan was repaid the Assoication was to dissolve and the land to become the property of the original land grant holders. The FHA would not approve the loan unless Chilili deeded its land grant to the privant corporation. However instead of dissolving the Association it was infiltrated with many outsides who eventually phaised the community members of Chilili out of policy making positions. The selling of land grant areas and common lands to outsiders followed. Just recently, the Central New Mexico Electric Cooperative began setting up utility poles for what the residents of Chilili thought to be for a subdivision. Not more than six poles went up before the villagers confronted the Electric Co-op telling them to get the poles out or they would do it for them. Residents saw this as a clear attempt by the Electric Co-op to intruce and encroach on the Chilili Land Grant to make profits at the expense of the majority.