Brazilian Labor systems to be studiedBrazilian labor systems, social institutions and the way slaves resisted restrictions will be the subjects of a one year study by an assistant professor at the University of Colorado at Boulder who received a Tinker Foundation postdoctoral fellowship. Robert Slenes, a member of the Boulder history department faculty for two years, has been named winner of a fellowship during which he will be in Brazil conducting research in the countries of Rio de Janero and Sao Paulo. Slenes said, he will study slavery in coffee growing areas of Brazil from 1850 to 1888, the period during which slavery there saw a gradual decline. The year 1850 marked the time when slave trade was abolished; 1888 was the year slavery was abolished. Brazil, Slenes said, was the largest importer of African slaves in the Western hemisphere and slavery was the most important form of labor in the two countries he will be studying. The U.S. Civil War, he pointed out, served as a signal to the Brazilians that slavery there was a dying institution.While the abolition of Brazilian slavery came about without a war, there were upheavals in the coffee regions and slaves were urged by abolitionists to abandon the coffee plantations. Slenes said he will be studying the patterns of social control and resistance and the institutions which gave the slaves ¡°breathing room¡± during their struggles for freedom. He explained that there was a structure of rewards set up by the masters which eventually gave freedom to those slaves who had been obedient. ¡°By being rebellious,¡± he said, ¡°it was more costly to the slaves because they stood to lose the opportunities they might gain by being subserviant.¡± Before joining the University at Boulder faculty, Slenes taught for three years at the University of New Mexico. The Tinker Foundation competition was established to foster understanding among the people of Ibero-America. Its fellowships provide support of $14,000 a year, plus $l,OOO for travel.