Pueblo Indian Conference stresses sovereightyA two day Pueblo Indian Conference sponsored by the all Indian Pueblo Council discussed the difficulties Indians have had in preserving their sovereignty and way of life while dealing with federal bureaucracies, state governments and large corporations. The conference held earlier this month is said to have been the first gathering of Pueblo professionals from the fields of education, health, social welfare, and politics. Dr. Dave Warren from the Institute of American Indian arts, said that to be an Indian in the Southwest in the next thirty years will be tough sledding. We¡¯re already seen as ¡°empending national progress.¡± Another common feeling discussed both in and out of workshops at the conference was the disintegration of traditional Pueblo culture. According to Dave Warren who is from Santa Clara Pueblo the cause of such disintegration is the fact that larger institutions are now taking over functions once fulfilled by the Indian family. The nature of the extended family is to take children out of their home at an early age for headstart programs, and later sent to schools where they don¡¯t speak their native language. Even more dangerous, is the fact that some Indians are beginning to think about handing care ofthe elders over to a senior citizens institutions. Speaking on political issues Frank Tenorio, Secretary of all Indian Pueblo Council states "What we¡¯re experiencing now is a grab¡±. Tenorio refering to land and water rights in general and, in particular to the water rights of the Santa Domingo Pueblo now threatened by a copper leaching project proposed by the Occidential Minerals Corporation for the Cerrillos area. ¡°There¡¯s going to be a big fight on this issue,¡± says Tenorio because at present the conservancy has a contract with Oxyamin to deliver the water. Ihe Santa Domingos are not going to give up their rights easily. The major point of this discussion was that without a family we don¡¯t have community harmony without a community we have a series of institutions through which people move without that much real help. One solution for Pueblo and other Indians is to reduce such dependence on government institutions. This is now possible under the recently passed Indian Self Determination Act which allows Tribes to contract with the federal government to run a school, business, or other agencies. The first school to be operated under such a contract will be the Albuquerque Indian School, which up to this fall has been run by the BIA. The school will create an environment where the young and old can get together; at the entrance, students and faculty had constructed an adobe wall, and to the right were two large Indian ovens constructed by Pueblo women who came down from San Idenfonso to share their skills with the students. Joe Abeyta, Superintendent of the newly recognized school says ¡°We can¡¯t just imitate the formal public school¡±. Other important issues discussed at the conference included the need for more professional Indian people at the reservation level and the need for more political participation. ¡°The world is looking at us and the troubles we have had in the past, if we dwell on the negative, our chances for success are minimal. The Indians do it,¡± Abeyta said.