San Luis chosen for future energy programSan Luis the oldest town in Colorado has been chosen as a community future energy model site. Funded by a grant from the Carolyn Foundation of Minneapolis; San Luis was selected for the fourteen month project because of its cold winter weather conditions and a potential scarce wood situation in El Valle. Arnold Valdez a concerned resident is well on the way with his own solar heated tri-level chante (constructed from adobe bricks which is best for conserving heat and keeping cool in the summer) which he will be using as a model to teach community residentshow they could apply this to their community project or own homes. The purpose of the solar power project is to empower communities to create their own energy future. The public has received a great deal of information about the situation. Information alone does not give individuals either the power or the means to change their behavior and take control of their own futures. Educational attempts, to convince people of the reality of the energy crisis will be counter productive unless they are aware of specific alternatives which can improve their situation. Individual initiatives such as driving slower, turning off lights, or keeping the thermostat at a 65 degree may seem ineffectual. Without a sense of community support and accomplishment, these individual measures are doomed to fail. This project assumes that t\yo things are necessary for the public to have a part in solving the energy crisis. ? only communities of individuals can effect longterm change toward positive solutions; ? all long-term solutions must have physical and practical manifestations in the present. A community which develops a neighborhood greenhouse for growing vegetables and flowers in the winter can also train dozens of families in practical means of ¡°winterizing¡± their own homes or building their own solar greenhouses. Ten years from now, such a _ community¡¯ might build its own wind generator or waste methane converter for more elaborate applications. In the process of working out such concerted and physical solutions, the community also becomes the means of planning for and supporting individuals during inevitable life-style changes, necessitated by the end of our society¡¯s dependence on cheap non-renewable sources of physical energy. Several different types of communities will be chosen as sites for project activities. Site investigation will include demographic suitability, energy use patterns, energy sources, legal and planning mechanisms, social and interest group structure and other criteria. A community must transmit in a systematic, creative way technical information that will empower them to create their own energy future. Material will be presented in understandable terms using terminology and language that will be useful to the citizen grappling with this subject for the first time. The help of the communications media will be aggressively sought. Their interest will be sustained by the excitement and genuine newsworthiness of the events themselves. To assure transferability to other communities, the final product will be a packet which will include community energy workbooks (a ¡°community story¡± on each of the communities involved detailing the process with descriptions, pictures and the plans developed by the community).