146 women were killed in a fire in 1908 at the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory in. New York City because the owner kept the doors locked to prevent any kind of job action by workers. International Working Womens Day originated in that same year when thousands of women workers fought for better working conditions, shorter hours, increased benefits and higher wages. It was a heroic, life and death struggle where police attacked and beat the women who refused to give up. The New York garment strikes were not the first nor the last militant struggles led by working and oppressed nationality women in this country against exploitive work conditions, child labor, discrimination and exploitation. This tradition of militancy has continued today in strikes like the ones at Farah and Oneida, both led by women. The oppression of women began with the historical development of classes. With the historical development of private ownership of property and class struggle, exploiter vs. exploited, master vs. slave, rich vs. poor came the subjugation of women. In economic booms the country is in need of cheap labor and that is how it has historically employed women. As women move from being isolated in the home to socialized labor, it becomes easier for them to define their enemies and friends. On the job it becomes clearer that the source of male supremacy is not their husbands, brothers, or fathers in general, but rather the people who own the companies, the elite class. Women have the right to equal pay for equal work, daycare, abortion and maternity care, but it is the people in control who oppose these things, not men as a group. Under capitalism women face the lowest wages of any group in society. In times of economic crises like the present, women are among the first to be laid off. Some women face triple discrimination, as women, as oppressed nationalities or minorities, and as workers. Their wages are lower than those of women overall and their unemployment rate even higher. Unemployment forces them most often into welfare rolls and into sterilization and birth control. As welfare and food stamp programs are cutback, the situation becomes so desperate for some women that they are forced into prostitution. Women are further degraded through the spread of decadent culture. Movies, books, and television shows sensationalize sex, rape, and crimes against women. At the same time women like Yvonne Wainrow and Inez Garcia who defend themselves and their children against such crimes are attacked by the legal system.