FCC criticized for allowing race sex stereotypingThe U.S. Civil Rights Commission reported last week that television is marked by racial and sexual stereotyping and that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) appears unwilling to push hard to end such discrimination. The commission said the FCC appears “willing to accept little more than a paper commitment” by the television industry to end such discrimination. “In doing so it has thereby demonstrated its unwillingness to live up to the promise of its original call to the ‘conscience’ of the nation’s broadcasting media and its own mandate to encourage the broader and more effective use of radio and television,” the report said. THE COMMISSION urged the FCC to revise its equal employment opportunity guidelines and employment forms. Congress also was urged to give the FCC power to regulate the employment policies and practices of the networks. The FCC now has no direct authority over the networks. The FCC also was urged to conduct a public inquiry and proposed rule-making on the problem. The 181-page report, titled “Window Dressing on the Set,” evaluates network dramatic programming broadcast from 1969 through 1974, news programs broadcast in 1974-75 and employment data for 40 major market commercial and public television stations. The report blames the networks for the alleged sexual and racial stereotyping in programming, since they produce most programs seen on local stations. In TV drama, the report said, white males dominated the screen, appearing in 65.3 percent of all major and minor roles. White males appeared more frequently in serious roles and portrayed older, more independent characters having diverse and prestigious occupations, the report said. It said white females had 23.8 percent of all roles, many of which were comic and portrayed characters who were young, unemployed, underemployed and tied to the family. Minorities continued to appear primarily in ethnic settings or as tokens in all white shows, with 8.6 percent of the roles being played by nonwhite males and 2.3 percent by nonwhite females, the report said. IT SAID MINORITY and female news correspondents rarely reported crucial national stories and civil and women’s rights topics received "minimal coverage” on network television news. The Civil Rights Commission said white males made 88.6 percent of the 131 appearances made by TV correspondents during the survey period. Women and minorities were rarely the ‘‘news-makers,’’ the commission said, and stories relating to their achievement or accomplishments weren’t reported on network news. Their exclusion from network news suggests to the nation that minorities and women “may not matter,” the report said. In its employment study, the report found the number of women and minorities made visible on the screen at local television stations increased. However, it said minorities and women continued to be concentrated in the clerical and technical ranks. The report said women and minorities were almost totally excluded from decision making positions, and that their actual employment status was misrepresented by the local stations. The Civil Rights Commission is an independent, bipartisan fact finding agency.