Paco Sanchez Sr. Loved and ignoredby Joe ContrerasThe memory of Paco Sanchez Sr. still remains in the hearts of most Denver¡¯s Spanish Speaking citizens. Yet four years after his death many have not recognized the work, ingenuity and sacrifice Paco made to upgrade the latino image in Colorado, some did not even respect it. As a result a controversy still exists today in regard to what ever became of the Paco Sanchez empire or if there ever was one. Paco Sanchez arrived in Denver in 1948 as the advanceman for a touring Mexican orchestra. Finding no Spanish language medium for publicity he decided to stay and remained a Denverite for the rest of his life. Paco was born in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico in 1915. He was educated in the Guadalajara public school system and attended the Univesity of Jalisco. Christella Garcia, who worked with Paco for 15 years said she remembered that before Paco came to Denver there was no such thing as Mexican music in the area.¡± ¡°A lot of us didn¡¯t even know what a Marachi was,¡± She said. Paco established KSFC, Denver¡¯s Spanish language radio in 1954, initially broadcasting from his home then at 3348 Lafayette. George Sandoval, who also worked with Paco for more than 15 years said Paco had to work and sacrifice to get the station going in those early years. ¡°He would go up and down larimer street selling 60 second spots a dollar,¡± he said. ¡°He would sweep the floor at Lito¡¯s furniture trying to build up revenue, 1 know there must have been many time his family must of went hungry many,¡± Sandoval said. The Rocky Mountain News in 1954 published an editorial depicting ¡°Mexican Americans¡± as backwards and helpless. Angered by the editorial, Paco, founded the Good Americans organization (GAO), to show the Anglo community that Mexican Americans could be productive citizens of the community. As Paco¡¯s concern with latino issues grew his involvement with broadcasting became secondary. Paco purchased the holiday and Sante Fe theaters and provided Mexican film entertainment. Paco became a member of several community organizations. He was on the Wyatt school advisory committee, a commissioner with the Denver urban renewal authority, vice-president of Cosmopolitan TV Inc. and in 1968 he was elected to the state house of representatives. Paco also was the president of the GAO Federal Credit Union; president of the GAO homes Inc. with a 44 unit complex and a 13 story, 200 unit apartment building. In the spring of 1973 Paco founded the Coronado National Bank. On July 12, 1973 Paco died of complications following surgery. ¡°Paco accomplished a lot of things but nobody appreciated him till after died,¡± Christella Garcia told El Diario in an interview, ¡°and even then, she said, those people who were jealous and despised Paco came in sympathizing and helping Paco¡¯s family only to see what they could get out of the estate. They all though Paco was rich,¡± she said. ¡°These people,¡± whose names Mrs. Garcia did not publish for personal reasons, ¡°though Paco owned everything that he founded,¡± she said. Tkhey tried to convince stockholders that I was stealing from them and mismanaging the various organizations. 1 actually had to bring documentation to prove to their attorneys that although Paco founded the GAO homes, the Coronado Bank, and other companies, they community ventures and Paco was a stockholder. Paco owned the two theaters and KFSC. When those people found out Paco owed money they dropped their assistance to the family like a hot potato,¡± she said. George Sandoval acknowledged that this was the case.¡°It¡¯s true, those people did exist,¡± Sandoval said. Paco made a lot of things possible,¡± Mrs Garcia said but it took a lot of work from people working with him to turn his ideas into realities. ¡°I still hear the comment today that after Paco died every thing went down the drain. Its not true, I still operate the GAO homes, Garcia said. The GAO was sold in the best interest of the organization. Under the economic circumstances Paco would have done the same thing. We kept the Coronado Bank open for three years after Paco¡¯s death. There were several problems that led to the banks failure she said. The depositors were mostly low income people that had belonged to the GAO credit union. We couldn¡¯t draw the large depositors, such as latino business, because we couldn¡¯t service their needs as well as the more convenient large banks. It was Paco¡¯s dream to have a latino bank but we weren¡¯t ready for a bank. After his death all his banking advisors disappeared ¡°I didn¡¯t know anything about banking,¡± Garcia said. Three years later we tried to sell the bank but the Holiday theatre provided the first Mexican film entertainment tor Colorado's Spanish Language residents.The Good Americans Organization dance hall featured renown Mexican bands and an opportunity for the Spanish speaking to socialize. The Dance Hall Is still open todayThis 13 story 200 unit apartment complex was founded by Paco Sanchez Sr. for low income senior citizens.Paco's involvement in community issues made city and state officials more responsive to latino concerns. Paco, who was also a state legislator, interviewed former governor John Love tor a public affairs segmentThe procession of funeral was said to have been so long that when the herse arrived at ML Olivet Cemetery people were still leaving the Sacred hart Church grounds.Thousands attended Paco¡¯s Funeral. At his rosery it was said ¡°Although Paco was born in Mexico, he lived and died In the city of his dreams, his accomplishments, his work; his happiness."