Understanding the Juvenile Delinquent
by Janette Thompson
Kids will be kids so the saying goes. When they are small their curious and mischievous ways are thought of as cute and very natural and most of the time are encouraged. As the child gets older and those ways grow bigger and sometimes more dangerous the child gets put down for doing the same thing he did when he was younger. The child starts to see parents from a more mature standpoint. They see how their parents put them down and used them because theyre under eighteen or not a grownup. They see how grown-ups think they are inferior and cant think for themselves. That is how most juveniles start their trip through delinquency. In some cases abuse, both mental and physical, imposed by the parents forces the child into delinquency. In some cases its just too much strain coming home from school to another argument. The child knows that something has to be done to get out of the house. The juvenile makes an attempt to run away but that doesnt work. Next time he/she may try to steal a car or some money. Sure, he might make it out of state but there is hardly a chance he will make it until he is eighteen. Then will come the detention centers, jail, court hearings, then Finally placement, which is usually a state institution. In the institution juveniles get discriminated against and are treated like they are less than dogs. This is true, but did you know that most of the discrimination doesntcome from the personnel of the institution, but from the people on the outside. You might say, When did I ever do that? But remember last week when you told your child not to hang around a person because they had been in placements before or in trouble, or they might be a bad influence. What about you big business owner? Remember the last time you told a juvenile you couldnt hire him because of his reputation . Believe it or not the teenagers of our schools, remember the last time you wrote' something on the bathroom wall about
a person in a home or institution or put them down and laughed as they walk by. Officers, remember the last time you brought a juvenile to a detention center and said Well another one down, or some little saying to catch a laugh. Put yourself in a juveniles place. Imagine being rejected by your parents; running, having handcuffs put on you, being put in a six by ten foot room with a toilet, a small sink, a metal bed, then having a judge read your history from a File. Finally you get placed where you dont know anyone and all they can think about is how to change you. You want to cry but you cant because youve turned cold and dont even care whats going to happen next. Now you may ask What can I do? Well the first thing is learn to care, then try to understand that people no matter what age do have the ability to think and to feel rejection. But most important, understand that everyone makes mistakes. Janette Thompson, 16, currently resides at Eldorado Heights, a correctional institution for adolescent women. Before being placed at Eldorado Heights, Janette lived in foster homes and detention centers. She left home when she was 14, after she threatened to turn in her mother for child abuse and was subsequently kicked out of her home and told to fend for herself. Janette then contacted a social service agency in Commerce City and was placed in a foster home, where she stayed for one year. She then returned home only to be mistreated again. Janette ran away after only three months at home. She was caught and placed in a detention center. Afterwards, she was returned to her parents, where she was again physically abused. After two months of daily beatings, friends informed a school nurse of the abuse Janette was suffering at home. A social worker was contacted and Janette was placed in a shelter care home and then at Eldorado Heights where she has lived for four months.