Barrio community develops professional health clinic
La Clinica del Valle, a community medical clinic founded in 1971 by the residents of a barrio area in La Junta to meet a critical need for primary health care, has developed as a progressive, professional Health Facility to the stage of renovating the old building it had been operating in and constructing a new addition, which will allow La Clinica to expand its services. In the beginning local residents provided services for rural poor and incoming migrants. The weekend clinics were held in a small old house in a barrio of La Junta, Colorado, with the assistance of medical students and doctors from Denver, who offer their medical knowledge and help for the cause. Funds for rent and utilities came from tamale sales, contributions from individuals and organizations, raffles and farm work. However these efforts were interrupted in the fall of 1972 because of -insufficient funds and supportive services. In the summer of 1973 a contract with the Department of Health of Colorado Migrant Division, opened the doors to the Clinic for eight weeks. A physician from the National Jewish hospital came to work and documented the local health care needs. The Clinic finally obtained money from the Campaign for Human Development to start a clinic in the winter of 1973.
In the meantime, an application for a physician was made to the National Health Service Corps (N.H.S.C.). It was six months until Dr. Flower was admitted. Also, a grant to expand services, personnel, and develop a rural health care model was obtained through the Rural Health Initiative. In August of 1976, La Clinica del Valle recruited an additional physician, an internist, through N.H.S.C., who has extended the already established relations with the social hospitals and nursing homes, conducting speciality clinics, giving professional lectures, and doing consultations for referred patients. Beginning in July 1977 the clinic will be undergoing more changes. Dr. Flower and the nurse Practitioner will be leaving in place of two new Doctors. Three doctors will then be providing health care in the newly built addition and renovated older section of the clinic which were constructed with grants from El Pomar, Gates, and Boettcher Foundations and H.E.W. Rural Health Initiative. La Clinica Del Valle is an example of how a program could be developed professionally and give its services to all the gente who need it, especially in the poor and the Spanish speaking communities. La Clipica Del Valle will be opening with an open house and .ribbon-cutting ceremony to be held on Saturday, June 25, 1977 at 1:00 p.m.