12 named
Carter's Latino appointments met with mixed opinion
By Joe Contreras
The Carter administration has named 12 Latinos to various government positions. The action has been praised by some Latino leaders and criticized by others. Manuel Fierro, president of El Congresso in Washington, said the appointments were very significant and compared favorably to past administrations. He said he expects more Latinos to be appointed. Although a Latino was not named to a cabinet position Fierro said we must work towards the future. We cannot cry over spilled milk, he said. However, the United League of Latin American Citizens (LULAC) apparently doesnt agree. At the point when eight Chicanos had been appointed, the organization purchased advertisements in 11 U.S. newspapers criticizing Carter for his failure to appointment Mexican-Americans to high positions in his administration. With the selection of 250 appointments made in the two
months since Carter took office, Leo Cardenas, director of the Colorado LULAC chapter said Carter appears to be backsliding on his campaign promise to appoint Mexican-Americans. Cardenas said the Latino community has been left on the outside looking in. He said election surveys show that approximately 80 per cent of Latino voters cast their ballots for Carter. Ruben Valdez, minority leader of the Colorado House of Representatives, said he was disappointed at the number of appointments but hoped more would be named soon. Valdez said he believes is sincere in his attempts to have Latinos named to his administration. Those appointed so far are: Fabian Chaves, of New Mexico, will be an assistant secretary of commerce. Alex Mercure, of New Mexico, will be an assistant secretary of agriculture. Abelardo Valdez, of Washington, will be an assistant administrator of the
bureau of Latin American affairs in the Agency for International Development. William Medina, the first Puerto Rican to be named to top level administration position, will be an assistant secretary of housing and urban development. Gracieola Olivarez, of New Mexico, will head the independent Community Services Administration. Arabella Martinez, of California, will be an assistant secretary of health, education and welfare. Patrick Apodaco, of New Mexico, will be an associate counsel to the president. Anna Maria Martel, of California, will be an assistant to White House personnel director Jim King. Ann Gutierrez, of California, will be a member of the White House police staff. Joe Aragon will be a special assistant to the President. Juan Rodriquez, a Cuban-American, will be a special assistant to the secretary of the housing and urban development.