Nearly 3000 women attended a statewide Womens Conference at the University of Colorado in Boulder. The result of the conference was a ratification of a Colorado Plan of Action, containing recommendations for implementing legislation and programs to benefit women. The conference also elected 20 delegates to a national womens conference in Texas slated for the fall. Issues discussed at the conference included increased employment and financial power for women and support for the Equal Rights Amendment. U.S. Representative Patricia Schrocder spoke of the need for more women in legislative positions. Other speakers included Dottie Lamm (wife of Gov. Richard Lamm), Elise Boulding, University Institute of Behavioral Science director; Shirley Hill Witt, native American and regional director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
A group of Chicana women formed a caucus with black, feminist and other Colorado women to support each others candidates. Anna Jo Haynes, A Chicana from Denver felt the caucusing was good but said, As far as getting our people elected, 1 think the deck is stacked. The ones who will get elected will be those who go with the while women. A Chicana nominee to the national convention shared her views saying that short of physical violence at the time of voting Chicana views would not be represented. Chicanas must learn to politic. We should be working on the plan of action rather than going to all these workshops and leaving the plan in the control of a handful of women. The Colorado Plan for Action was opposed by Members of Right-to-Life, Citizens for Decency through Law, the Archdiocese Council of Catholic Women and the Colorado wing of Phyllis Shlafleys anti-ERA group and
Eagle Forbm. They united to oppose planks on abortion, female sexuality education in the schools, midwifery, lesbian rights, decriminalization of prostitution and changing Womens Social Security benefits. The basic recommendations of the plan include: Establishing a state Womens Advocacy office to work with the Legislature and state agencies on welfare rights, credit, fair housing and legislative issues affecting women; Recruiting women to policy-making positions in the private and public sectors; Developing agencies to provide vocational training, job counseling and education on job discrimination, sex stereotyping and affirmative action programs. Other recommendations are: an end to exploiting women through pornography; Equal access to good medical and dental care for women in rural areas, including the availability of information on birth control, midwife assistance, nutrition and alternative mental and physical helath care; and an annual meeting and publication of a report on the status of the World Action Plan by the U.N. Commission on the status of Women. Those elected as representatives of Colorado to the national conference are: Genevieve Fiore, Lenore Walker, Marie Mendoza, Betty Salazar, Cleo Breeze, Jean Jackson, Carol Lease, Mary Hoagland, Juanita Doihinguez, Mary Bennett-Sharf, all of Denver; Peg Ackerman, Colorado Springs; Jeanie Cochran, Broomfield; Janet Beardsley, Eldorado Springs; Gwen Thomas, Aurora; Judy Horn, Littleton; Susan Dorvis, Breckenridge; Elizabeth Rave and Ana Marie Sandoval, Greeley; and Cynthia Kent, Ignacio.