C.E.B. member found guilty of racism
Cultural Events Board member J.C. Ancell was found guilty of being racist and sexist. The decision came after a series of previous meetings involving J.C. Ancell. On November 17, 1976 the Minority Action Research Center (MARC) went before the Cultural Events Board (CEB) to seek funding for Cultural Awareness Week. After intense questioning by the board members, J.C. Ancell, asked of the Asian Women who were to participate on a Third World Womens Panel.After hearing their names he proceeded to attack them on a personal basis. He went on to say that he knew one of the women personally and that he had lived with her two |ind one-half years. He continued to say that she was a rich girl who was not qualified to speak on the subject of Asian Women. Stu Osnow, Chairperson of the board did not call J.C.
Ancell out of order, even though he knew that the slanderous remarks that were being made about the Asian were not called for. At the meeting the board required MARC to submit advertising layouts to Councilmember Liz Martinez, because according to her many of our (CHICANO) activities are flops. CEB allocated $1333 to MARC for Cultural Awareness Week. When no ad layouts were submitted to CEB by November 24th, Stu Osnow then cancelled activities and Newspaper layouts without notifying MARC. MARC members did not realize that they were expected to meet certain deadlines, when the activities were being coordinated by MARC and not CEB. According to Stu Osnow the monies were not cancelled, they were only frozen. According to Freddy Trujillo, MARC member, when I
went to the Student Finance Office to get a purchase order, I was told that the event had been cancelled by Stu Osnow. On December 2, 1976 MARC presented its complaints to the UCSU with hopes of finding a favorable response from this group of student representatives. The results of this meeting left much to be desired. The UCSU meeting proved to be more irresponsible and more racist than the meeting with the CEB had been. During the meeting a woman was drawing Chicano symbols on the blackboard and was very disruptive. Nothing was done by the President (Nili Lange) and VicePresident (Elliot Lowey) to remove her from the meeting. Our brothers Ricardo Falcon and Freddy Granado were banned from this campus for doing lesser things. She soon began to attack UMAS and the
Chicano Movement, something which was completely out of order, since UMAS was not the issue. The Rep. Council members found all the mockery of the UMAS Organization and the Chicano Movement symbols (which included a huelga bird smoking a cigarette) extremely amusing, they were bursting with laughter. This proceeded until a MARC member stood up and reminded her that six Chicanos had died so that UMAS could be here today, and the laughing still continued. They showed no respect to our brothers and sisters who died in the struggle. During the meeting a motion was introduced by councilmember Tom Trumble that a committee be formed to examine any wrongdoing on the part of CEB or its members. The committee was approved and councilmembers Jack Mador, Rebecca Morris, Trumble and Lowey were to sit
on it, this committee was not recognized by MARC members. On Thursday, December 9, 1976 the committee presented a resolution that would require J.C. Ancell to be suspended, until investigation would be over. Francisco Altamirano reminded the councilmembers that the committee was not recognized by MARC members and asked that a new committee be formed that would be composed of three minority men, three minority women, three anglo men and three anglo women. The committee was approved and Francisco Altamirano, Eliot Lowey were to be the chairpersons.