Mr. William E. Briggs:
For several weeks UMAS has been meeting with the specific purpose of defining various issues pertaining to Chicano Studies. UMAS would like to have the opportunity to communicate the conclusions in person with you, providing that you find the time to meet with us. We would like to advance this letter to you as an introduction to the ideas that concern us. It has been characteristic of our status as students to be always deprived of basic opportunities to express ourselves, let alone to be heard. This is due to the isolation in which we find ourselves in regards to university structures. The history of Chicano Students in this university has been less than exemplary. As students we have always had to conform to dictates from within our program and from without it; dictates that have not necessarily been made in the best of our interests. We do not know who is to blame and at this point that is immaterial. What we do know is that if the committment from your department to develop Chicano Studies into a serious, responsible and creative department is there, so it is on our behalf. For this to happen we believe it will be indispensable that past attitudes and old approaches be re-evaluated and corrected. Our Chicano Studies Program has been in the past administered by professors who could not, or did not know how to shape Chicano Studies into a department worthy of its cause and responsive to students needs. Chicano Studies Program has often been divided by factionalism which has hindered its development and which has caused serious and irreparable damages in our lives. Past struggles for power among Chicano faculty have caused bitterness and division which regenerated itself among in coming students. Professors involved in this personal confrontations have argued that differences were expected and that these differences, in the long run were the product of the search for better alternatives for the students. Perhaps. We can only look at the results and see with sadness'that we have been continuously manipulated and used to tragic ends. These are serious matters which become more serious when present evidence seems to show this type of dangers to remain latent in our program. In light of the fact that the previous director of the program Mr. Luna, left suddenly and unexpectedly, the program now finds itself afloat without a regular director and the current Acting Director, for this reason, was quickly appointed to that position, a position for which he was not originally considered when he visited Boulder. This situation has lent itself to be manipulated for opportunistic ends and for some tome now. Chicano Students at Boulder have been waging a battle to prevent petty politics and selfishness from interfering with the development of our program and again threatening the achievement of the goals our program seeks. UMAS is worried about the need to start now for the search of a permanent director who can give permanence and stability to the diverse interests of Chicano Studies: Academic excellence, cohesiveness with the Chicano community and support for the needs of Chicano Students. Central to this concern we must bring to your attention the feelings of some students in regards to the coming tenure of professor George Rivera who in the context of the issues raised in this letter, we cite as an example. Professor Rivera engaged in acitivties that caused serious division among students in which struggle for power among Chicano faculty were evident and in which manipulation of students ended in events know to all. UMAS does not oppose professor Riveras tenure on the remembrance of issues past, but since those events took place, professor Riveras participation in the program in extra-curricular activities with students, with local Chicano community and his contribution for the general development of Chicano Studies amount to zero. This we attribute to be the result of the events that took place in 1974, the occupation to TB-1 and all of its ramifications. Since then, professor Rivera has been a ghost to our program. If tenure is given to him, bare in mind that what took place is not forgotten. That if those involved were willing to put aside those memories, they have away of regenerating in the minds of incoming students for they were written with blood. We do not blame professor Rivera only for those events. Nor do we say he is guilty of the results, but we know of professors engaged in a mortal battle against each other and those directly involved, Rivera one of them, used the students to fight what to us seems nothing more than personal struggles for power. This is what UMAS wishes to put an end to, and this is why we take a firm stand on this issue. UMAS does not believe that hiring temporarily or permanently professors incapable of performing the tasks we have enumerated is what Chicano Studies Program needs and what the university needs at large among its faculty. To continue with these practices is to invite failure and we dont believe either your department nor ours welcomes an alternative as such. We address this letter to your attention after having seen a ray of hope which promises an opportunity to be very valuable, a measure that can definetly be the answer to provide direction for Chicano Studies Program. UMAS would like to reiterate its willingness to meet with you if you should feel it necessary to expand in person on the issue referred to your attention. Thanking you in advance for your concern we remain. 
Respectfully Yours, UMAS Board of Directors