Legislation proposed for Undocumented WorkersPresident Carter has proposed that approximately 8 million undocumented workers living in the U.S. be given status which will allow them to remain lawfully. His new legislation contains provisions on: adjustment of status: undocumented workers who have been in the U.S. prior to 1970 will be permitted to remain and apply for U.S. citizenship nondeportable states; undocumented workers who entered the U.S. between 1970 and Jan. 1 of this year can remain with five year work permits. employer sanctions; at present there are no penalties for hiring undocumented workers; a firm could be fined up to 1,000 dollars for each undocumented worker employed. improved patrols at the border foreign aid, aid would go to Mexico and other countries to create jobs so their citizens would not have to come to the U.S. illegally to find jobs. Although it was recently submitted, legislation on the bill will probably not be considered until next year.While in Colorado, state labor and employment director, Robert Ore has outlined a five point program to protect workers from being exploited. His program will include the following points: his office will seek federal funds to add investigators to the division of labors two man staff to answer migrant wage complaints. Employment service offices will be mobile to take migrant complaints and forward them to staff investigators increased registration of farm labor contractors. pressure the attorney general to rule whether farmworkers are covered by the states new minimum wage law informing farmworkers in other states that there is little work available in Colorado Colorado migrant council director Luis Jaramillo said they have been receiving complaints from workers who were paid with bad checks or not paid at all and others forced out of their jobs when cheaper labor was found. Ore said labor contractors are largely blamed and that registration, under a law that went into effect on July 1, 1977 gives the state authority to audit their records. The law also provides for workers to be given a written contract specifying rate of pay providing workmen¡¯s compensation and prohibiting a ¡°company store¡± in which exhorbitant prices are charged for goods.