Nubia, Not the average funkitized band
By Don Griego
Nubia, a group of multi-faceted musicians capable of playing a wide range of music has risen in its three years of existence to become one of the more popular groups in Colorado. The group of seven which include: George Rivera, Dale Garcia, Ernie Rivera, Rudy Medina, Dino Aragon. Michael Romero, and Danny Trujillo are primarily from Denvers westside, except for Dale Garcia who is from the west coast. Surprisingly enough, the group did not go the usual route that most bands do. Instead of playing small gigs and weddings, they started by playing with other groups in concerts and gradually gained recognition by playing in clubs.
Their music, which they do not like to classify as being only one particular style; is composed of salsa, soul, funk, and rock. George Rivera prefers to call their music just Nubia, and feels that the group is equally proficient in all areas. He said the group does not find one type of music more difficult than another to perform. The groups goals in music are to be thought of as artists rather than just performers. Rivera said, We were never doing what other groups were doing in the clubs anyway. You go out and check and most groups are playing funk. Everyone is getting funkitized. He also said that Were not black, were a Chicano group thats got a lot of roots
to expose ourselves musically. The group believes that, because everyone is so funkitized, one has to play that type of music just to show the audience you can play it. The group plays in the Denver area, but has traveled to different parts of the country. In traveling, they have played before exclusively anglo audiences and in doing so their feelings towards playing before a particular group are just that their music be
appreciated and not see it as being for any color or ethnic origin. As to their future plans, Nubia hopes to do some recording in the studio, and ultimately produce some albums. The band is happy with what they are doing and as George says, Weve stuck to our guts and were going to show the people were going to produce good music, thats our goal.
Nubia,  is currently playing at the Red Turkey in Denver.
Each member of Nubia can play more than one instrument, this aids them in playing a wide variety of music.
Below: George Rivera, one of the original members of Nubia, used to manage a KMart before playing with the group.