Story courtesy of La Cucaracha
The roots of the plight of the undocumented worker are complex and deep, and must be traced to historical events; the unfulfilled promise of the revolutions in Mexico, the rape of Mexico by Europeans and then by U.S.; the fluctuations in the U.S. economy; and the nature of a profit motivated system. When seen in light of the real causes for their forced journey to the U.S., the presence of undocumented workers here and the treatment accorded them are an indictment of the American political and economic systems. This report will deal primarily with Mexican and Latino persons who come to the U.S. and who comprise the majority of undocumented persons in this countrv. LA TIERRA ES LA VIDA The revolutions and civil wars fought in Mexico over the last centuries share a common theme, the right of the people who work the land to own land. Even the war between Mexico and the United States was a struggle to control what is now the Southwest U.S. The U.S. won that conflict, and the Mestizo people living in the contested areas became a conquered people and remain so now. The conflict over land continues in I Mexico today. After the revolution of 1 1910 Mexico did implement what are I called reforms, the most important of I which was an attempt to give I ownership of the land to those who S work it. Large agricultural plots were banned; instead individuals were allowed to own small plots of land with the condition that the land could not be sold. If this policy had been able to be implemented Mexico might have avoided the problems that have plagued it since the revolution. However, the traditional rulers of Mexico, the state and church, with the aid of foreign backing were able to subvert the reforms fought for in the Revolution of 1910. MEXICAN FARMER Since individuals were only allowed small parcels of land, whole families would claim a parcel for each family member, so that the large farms and ranches were preserved intact. The larger farms and ranches were better organized and better able to make profit than the small land owners and the small ranch or farm owner could not compete in the market place with the larger farms. Thus, while the Mexican farmer is still entitled to a parcel of land, he is unable to compete with the mechanized and foreign backed large farms. Many farmers are forced to rent their lands out to the larger farmer and then work their own lands for the benefit of the combines. The Mexican farmer who rents out his land and cannot subsist on the meager wages paid him will often journey to the major cities in Mexico seeking employment. With unemployment running at 40% in urbanized areas of Mexico the farmer ends up raising a family in intense poverty.  Illegal aliens are about to be taken to Border Patrol office at San Ysidro. Calif. Photo from Rocky Min. News.