Pecos, New Mexico is a small pueblo southeast of Santa Fe. Here an old deserted adobe mission still stands. A prominent doorway looms from the ruins. Here many say they have seen the ghost of Friar Fernando de Velasco who was murdered there in 1680. Once the Pecos Pueblo was the largest inhabited city in the Southwest. More than 2,000 Indians lived there when the first white man saw it. Despite 500 warriors guarding the four-story pueblo, Coronado and Spanish conquistadores captured it in 1540 during their quest for gold. In 1620 Franciscan friars constructed a church near Pecos. Later archaeologists found out it was the largest church north of Mexico City. However the church was destroyed in the pueblo revolt of 1680 where Friar Velasco died. Even though this seems unlikely due to religion, legend claims Friar Velasco cursed Pecos and doomed it to become ruins someday. A few decades later another church was erected but due to a small pox epidemic and inter-tribal warfare in 1788, nearly the entire community was wiped out. By 1838 the 17 survivors left their homes moving north to Jemez Pueblo. The eight-foot-thick walls remained serving as a landmark on the Santa Fe Trail. In 1966 archaeologists began excavating in Pecos. Under the ruins the foundation of the original mission was found. This structure measured 170 feet long and 90 feet wide. the legend of the haunted doorway began in 1969 when archaeologist Lean Pinkley died at the site due to a heart attack. It was reported she had seen the ghost of Friar Velasco. Mrs. Pinkley had been digging up human remains near the doorway when she told a fellow worker, "Theres a friar watching us from the doorway.  As time passed things were added to the story, including that Friar Velasco not only roamed the doorway but the other ruins at the pueblo as well, and those who dug there would die. The alledged curse claimed another victim when an archaeologist commited suicide in 1930. Perhaps the ghost of Friar Velasco does roam the ruins. But standing in the valley surrounded by such Chicano fakelore one may sense the feeling of mystery and fear.