by Joe Contreras
In a written complaint to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) George Sandoval, former general manager of KFSC radio, alleges that KFSC has fallen into the hands of mismanagement and as a result the Spanish community has been used and ignored. Sandoval said he is asking the FCC to stay action on the assignment of the license until "my complaints are heard. Sandoval said his dismissal from the station has not been justified. I still have not been told why I was fired, he said. Sandoval said he may have been fired because the executors of the estate who control KFSC believed he was trying to stop the sale of the station. KFSC is in the process of being sold to pay off taxes, executor and attorneys fees and other debts. The sale of the station is being opposed by many community leaders and listeners who claim the sale is not justified. Since the death of Paco Sanchez, the stations founder and operator for 22 years, they believe nothing has been done by the executors of the estate to try to keep the station in the hands of its heirs. A petition containing more than 250 signitures protesting the sale of the station and demanding public hearing before a new license js issued has been sent to the FCC. In the petition the signers state, "We want the radio station to remain the same and in the hands of the Sanchez family as owners. We believe there are many mistakes in Latino Broadcasting Company's application to the FCC. The station has been in jeopardy of being sold to a predominatly Anglo ownership who many believe are purchasing KFSC under the quise that it will continue to serve the Spanish-speaking community. The petition also states that KFSC is being sold because of tax purposes yet it is operating in the black, according to its executors, the First National Bank of Denver. If this is the case, they claim Latino Broadcasting would change their format and Spanish to English, in an attempt to reach a different type of Chicano audience "that we know doesnt exist. In his complaint Sandoval states the current general manager and the executors of the estate are creating unfair practices by restraining trade. Sandoval, who operates an entertainment enterprise featuring various Mexican stars, claims his voice is not allowed on KFSC. KFSC is the only Spanish speaking radio station in the MetroDenver area and as a result Sandoval says, My business and family have suffered. I am concerned about the sale of the station, he said. These people who never knew Paco Sanchez or his contributions to the spanishspeaking community will benefit more from sale of the station than Sanchezs own family. If the station is Sold for $500,000 the Sanchez family will receive $5,000 total. The people from Latino Broadcasting Company know practically nothing about the needs of the community, I George Sandoval greets Dolores m Huerta at KFSC upon her arrival 3 to Denver lost Fall.