Thanksgiving Eve marchNo day of thanks to needy migrantThe Colorado Migrant Council began a five-day fast, Sunday, November 13, 1977, to dramatize the conditions of the farmworker. Sunday also began a drive by the Council and its supporters to gather food, clothing and monetary contributions to assist migrant workers and their families, who have even less money this year than they usually do because of the drought. Those participating in the fast are the representatives of the migrant council, as well as members of UMAS, the Farm Labor Task Force, the Student Coalition and the Migrant Action Program. At a press conference, November 11 at St. Thomas Aquinas Church, Irene BleaGutierrez, director of the National Chicana Conference, said, ¡°Thanksgiving has become a day of abundance of food and comfortable shelter, but the migrant farm worker lacks these luxuries and has little to be thankful for, even though he is responsible for 'he delivery of the food youeat.¡± She also estimated that 6,500 migrant families are stranded in Colorado this winter and most do not earn more than $3000.00, and only 10 percent are receiving public assistance of any kind. Virginia Lovato, a representative of the Colorado Migrant Council said that few federal funds are available to help these families and those that are available are complicated by red tape. She stressed that funds raised through endeavors such as the drive presently underway can be distributed without any red tape. The Council and its supporters also intend to march from Boulder to Denver on the eve of Thanksgiving, where they will attend mass and share a humble dinner at the offices of the Colorado Migrant Council at noon on Thanksgiving day. Donations can be sent to the Colorado Migrant Council. 44th and Safire streets in Denver.Raza gather at press conference to expose needs of migrants, explaining that migrants are responsible for providing food that many need, but themselves lack the simple necessities of food and clothing. From left are Irene Blea-Guiterrez, Leticia Pena, Virginia Lavato, Concepion Pena and Elies Sanchez.