Grand jury abuse used to harass political dissidents has long been known and protested. Such is the case of Moises Morales and Pedro Archuleta. Both Morales and Archuleta are associated with La Cooperacion, a community organization, which is located in Tierra Amarilla, New Mexico. La Cooperacion, a small, rural development organization, born out of the land grant movement, which has founded a clinic, law office, social service projects, and various other work, staffed and managed primarily by people who were born and raised in this valley. La Cooperacion charges it is once again the victim of government and police harassment. Both of the men were approached by FBI agents in January investigating a midwest and southwest network of terrorists concerning bombings that occurred in New York and Chicago. Earlier the men were told not to speak to the press or investigators because Morales was soon to go to trail on drug charges, and La Clinica, which is a part of La Cooperacion
was tilino cult noainct the local sheriff. When the two men refused to talk to the FBI without their attorneys, they were subpoenaed to appear before a federal grand jury in Chicago. The trip to Chicago resulted in the two men learning more about the Puerto Rican peoples struggle for independence. They said they had never before known anyone associated with or even heard of the organization FALN (Ferras Armadas de Leberacion Nacional) which allegedly claimed responsibility for several bombings in Chicago and New York. During the grand jury in December both men refused to testify on their attorneys advice. Two motions were filed on behalf of the men stating that the 23 person jury was constituted of white, middle class jurors with the exception of 2 black people and, therefore, was not a jury of their peers. Also given the governments history of harassment of political activists, attorneys sought to discover if illegal surveillance of any kind had been used against Archuleta, Morales, I their organization, or their attorneys. Days later, Archuleta and I Morales were again called to appear before the Chicago  grand jury. They did not i appear, however, as their attorneys appealed the still i pending motions. The judge in Chicago has I been thorough and methodical in hearing the motions filed by the two men. i One of the few black federal i judges, judge Parsons, the Chief judge of the district, has indicated that he is aware of the use of Federal grand juries to harass organizations and their leadership. In addition, he has expressed the need for sensitivity to the issue of minority rights and has not permitted the government to railroad through a ruling in either motion. On March 29, 1977, FBI agents again appeared at Archuletas home and served him with a subpeona to appear before a New York grand jury. The government claims it is investigating possible ties between the Hispanic commission (of which Pedro was on the board during 1973 and 1974) of the Episcopalian Church and FALN. ommission of the piscopalian Church (of which Pedro was on the board during 1973 and 1974) and FALN. Attorneys for Archuleta beiteved that since the Federal government had been unsuccessful in Chicago, they have had Archuleta called before the New York grand jury investigating essentially the same material, thereby undermining the authority of Judge Parsons. Grand juries, under the Nixon administration, were given broad sweeping powers to bring up rumors, hearsay, peoples personal lives and personal associations as evidence before a jury. When Pedro walked into the New York juryroom, he found he did not have the right to have his lawyer in the room with him and that if he did not answer questions, for whatever reason, he could be thrown in jail without a trial for the life of the grand jury, which is fourteen months. Many opponents and protestors charge that it appears these tactics are not an attempt at clearing up any crimes, but an attempt to scare and discredit movement groups. Between 1970 and 1973, grand juries returned 400 indictments against political dissidents in the United States. Less than 40 of these indictments ended up in convictions or pleias to lesser charges.