The Juan Haro trial will take place in Denver despite wide spread pretrial news coverage. Denver Dist. Judge Leonard Plank, who will preside over pretrial hearings said that although there has been much news coverage of the case he believed an impartial jury could be found. On Sept. 17, 1975 Juan Haro and Anonio Quintana were arrested for an alleged bombing plot of a Denver Police Substation. Since their arrest both have had to face the long and trying court battles. Motions for trial separation were made in October of 1976 by the defense, but were denied. Not until December of 1976 when prosedution lost a battle over evidence in Quintana's case were the two trials separated. Thus beginning the battle between defense and prosecution which was to be decided bv Judge McNamara. Durango the first location of the trial, was fought by defense attorneys because of the inconvience for both the witnesses and the supporters who would have to commute almost six hours to be present. The motion was denied and not until McNamara was personally assigned to preside over the case was the trial relocated. According to McNamara the trial was moved due to probability of hazardous road conditions. The next trial sight was Akron, Colorado, located 120 miles northeast of Denver. Due to an advertisement calling together the Washington County Chapter Committee to restore the Constitution, the trial was again moved. According to the advertisement in an Akron paper (see ad) members interested in aiding the police in controlling the incoming Chicano militants that will be present at the Chicano bomber trial were asked to attend a general meeting. McNamara's resignation in January of 1977, left the case once again up in the air. Not until Jan. 31st was a judge appointed to the case. McNamaras sudden decision to leave the case was a result of what he claimed was bad publicity in the El Gallo newspaper. According to a spokesperson, for the Legal Defense Committee, McNamara only used the article as a scapegoat to leave the case. McNamaras background, a special F. 8.1. agent, Denver Policeman, Denver Prosecutor, leaves many to wonder if his past history could make him pro prosecutor biased. At press time the Court date for Haro has been set for March 14th with pre-trial motions to begin in February. Juan Haro, awaiting trial for an alleged bombing plot, is shown here In front of his gas station in Denver Photo by Louis Lucero