Mestizo Park killingscommunity declares Ya Basta! ¡ªEnough!by Joe ContrerasMany Chicanos upset by the Police killing of two men in a Denver park are not convinced that justice will prevail despite pledges by city officials that a through and fair investigation will be conducted. The two men, James Hinojos, 32 and Arthur Espinoza, 48, were shot and killed by police July 30, as they lay drunk in the park. What many residents from the community are convinced of, is that the killings were "coldblooded murder," and are part of the growing aggression and disregard by the police force toward Chicano communities. They believe the only legal justice that can be done is the indictment and prosecution of the officers responsible. They say constant police intimidation must also stop, one way or the other. Many of the barrio residents have made it known that they are tired and will no longer put up with police intimidation. If city officials fail to provide some kind of safeguards from police abuse they say they will talce matters in their own hands and have a war (with police) if necessary. Rodolfo "Corky" Gonzales expressed the frustration of the community with white wash investigations, and police harrassement at conference the day after the shootings. Gonzales said "We're not going to march anymore, we're going to do it in a sophisticated way like thepolice do." For the time being, those concerned are trying to be patient with the way the investigation and their complaints are being handled, but are becoming frustrated by the insensitivity of some city officials. Attorneys for the families of the slain men have asked for a special prosecutor saying they have "no confidence" in district attorney Dale Tooley. Members of one of the families said they filed complaints last year charging that nine Denver police, one of whom was involved in the shootings, had harrassed and Threatened Arthur Espinoza but that nothing was ever done about the complaints. Uther members of the Chicano community have also criticized the district attorney because he filed charges against activist Juan Haro for an alleged plot to blow up police substations. Haro was acquited in what many believed was a government frame-up. The recent dropping of charges against an Anglo accused of killing a Chicano have also deteriorated the DA's credibility. The charges have been refiled. Several other members of the Chicano community, including organizations, legislative representives and citizens of other Chicano communities which have also had police problems.have expressed their concern about the killings and the treatment of community residents by police. They want answers, said state senator Paul Sandoval, who represents the area and is on a special city council legislative committee overseeing the Denver Grand Jury Investigation now taking place. Sandoval said he didn't know it the grand jury was going to come up with the answers the Hispano Community wants but that he is satisfied with the manner in which the probe is being handled.El Gallo Newspaper, a Crusade tor Justice Publication, critized Sandoval for his remarks to the news media. The newspaper dipicted him as a puppet of the city administration who knew little of the incident or of the community he represented. Sandoval told reporters he did not believe the victims were murdered, that the gas used by Police att*! the incident probably prevented a riot and that protestors represented a very small part of the Hispanic community.The ability of the Denver Grand Jury to investigate the killings has also been questioned. Many believe that grand jury investigations into police abuse such as in the death of Carl Newland have resulted in blantant whitewashes and that the same outcome will probably result again. Also a new Colorado law gags grand juries from reporting to the public regardless of whether indictments are issued or not. The DA has said he will seek to make the Grand Jury report public. But under the new unprecedented law, the public may be given access only to those parts of grand jury reports which make some individuals look good, and only -when those individuals petition the chief judge for the release of the good news pertaining to them. Thus, individuals can take portions of a report out of context and make it public, while the public is powerless to obtain the full story. The public and the news media will have access only to the technical charges and not the broader findings, regardless if they may be in the best interests of the public and of good government. Colorado is the only state in the U.S. to have this law. Denver Dist. Atty. Dale Tooley said he asked the Grand Jury, which is hearing testimony on the shootings, to investigate the killings becuase to get the truth of the situation authorities needed subpoena powers which his office does not have. But Chicanos have charged the grand juries suppress Chicanos and would enable authorities to whitewash the killings. Police and witness reports on the killings have consistantly conflicted. The police said they approached the two men, who they believed were wanted for a shooting earlier in the day. Plain clothes vice squad officers, John O¡¯Dell and Gary Graham told investigators they were within 50 feet of the men when they saw Espinoza hand a gun to Hinojos. They said they identified themselves and then started firing when Hinojos pointed the gun at them. Espinoza was killed when uniformed officer Dave Niel said he allegedly appeared to be reaching for a weapon. But several witnesses say that the officers did not identify themselves and that the shootings were ¡°cold blooded murder.¡± They said they did not see either of the men point a gun and that both men had been sleeping off the effects of intoxication prior to the incident. Final autopsy reports confirmed both men were lying down and were legally drunk. According to tests run on the bullets taken from the bodies of the two men, Hinojos was shot eight times by the two plainclothes officers, who each fired six shots from their .38-caliber revolvers. Espinoza was killed by a single bullet fired from a .357 Colt Python belonging to the uniformed officer. The gun allegedly taken from Hinojos had not been fired, but was found to be registered to Espinoza¡¯s grandmother. Police laboratory technicians could not find fingerprints on the gun. But police said the lack of fingerprints was not conclusive evidence that neither of the men held or pointed the gun. They said factors, such as conditions under which the gun was checked and the material the gun was made of, could make tests unreliable. Tests run on hands of both victims were also inconclusive as to whether either man held a weapon moments before the incident. The grand jury is expected to complete its investigation in a couple of weeks with the special investigative committee report to follow shortly thereafter.Among the community supporters who are protesting the Police killing of two chicanos, Denver attorney Kenneth Padilla with family and friends of the victims , demanding a special prosecutor to Investigate the killings.Signs depict the attitudes and moods of the community.Max James Hinojos is barricaded from angry witnesses, as he lies dead, killed by Denver policemen.Elrin Caldwell, Denver city councilman tries to calm down angry residents by saying that all channels will be taken to see that Justice Is done in the shooting case.Chicanos tired of police harassment march to Denver police headquarters" demanding police aggression must end."Community supporters march to Denver police headquarters protesting what they call ¡°cold blooded murder" in the brutal killing of James Max Hino/os and Arthur Espinoza.Andy Espinoza left, son of victim Arthur Espinoza, addresses the Denver city council asking that justice be sought in the shooting that left his father dead.¡°The day of the people" brought together the young and the old, all of who were concerned about their community.The mood at "A day of the people" was still one of concern. The event was held to show police intimidation will not scare the community into hiding.The ability of the Denver Grand Jury to investigate the killings has also been questioned. Many believe that grand jury investigations into police abuse such as in the death of Carl Newland have resulted in blantant whitewashes and that the same outcome will probably result again. Also a new Colorado law gags grand juries from reporting to the public regardless of whether indictments are issued or not. The DA has said he will seek to make the Grand Jury report public. But under the new unprecedented law, the public may be given access only to those parts of grand jury reports which make some individuals look good, and only -when those individuals petition the chief judge for the release of the good news pertaining to them. Thus, individuals can take portions of a report out of context and make it public, while the public is powerless to obtain the full story. The public and the news media will have access only to the technical charges and not the broader findings, regardless if they may be in the best interests of the public and of good government. Colorado is the only state in the U.S. to have this law. Denver Dist. Atty. Dale Tooley said he asked the Grand Jury, which is hearing testimony on the shootings, to investigate the killings because to get the truth of the situation authorities needed subpoena powers which his office does not have. But Chicanos have charged the grand juries suppress Chicanos and would enable authorities to whitewash the killings. Police and witness reports on the killings have consistently conflicted. The police said they approached the two men, who they believed were wanted for a shooting earlier in the day. Plain clothes vice squad officers, John O¡¯Dell and Gary Graham told investigators they were within 50 feet

of the men when they saw Espinoza hand a gun to Hinojos. They said they identified themselves and then started firing when Hinojos pointed the gun at them. Espinoza was killed when uniformed officer Dave Niel said he allegedly appeared to be reaching for a weapon. But several witnesses say that the officers did not identify themselves and that the shootings were ¡°cold blooded murder.¡± They said they did not see either of the men point a gun and that both men had been sleeping off the effects of intoxication prior to the incident. Final autopsy reports confirmed both men were lying down and were legally drunk. According to tests run on the bullets taken from the bodies of the two men, Hinojos was shot eight times by the two plainclothes officers, who each fired six shots from their .38-caliber revolvers. Espinoza was killed by a single bullet fired from a .357 Colt Python belonging to the uniformed officer. The gun allegedly taken from Hinojos had not been fired, but was found to be registered to Espinoza¡¯s grandmother. Police laboratory technicians could not find fingerprints on the gun. But police said the lack of fingerprints was not conclusive evidence that neither of the men held or pointed the gun. They said factors, such as conditions under which the gun was checked and the material the gun was made of, could make tests unreliable. Tests run on hands of both victims were also inconclusive as to whether either man held a weapon moments before the incident. The grand jury is expected to complete its investigation in a couple of weeks with the special investigative committee report to follow shortly thereafter.

Among the community supporters who are protesting the Police killing of two chicanos, Denver attorney Kenneth Padilla with family and friends of the victims , demanding a special prosecutor to Investigate the killings.

Signs depict the attitudes and moods of the community.

Max James Hinojos is barricaded from angry witnesses, as he lies dead, killed by Denver policemen.

Elrin Caldwell, Denver city councilman tries to calm down angry residents by saying that all channels will be taken to see that Justice Is done in the shooting case.

Chicanos tired of police harassment march to Denver police headquarters" demanding police aggression must end."

Community supporters march to Denver police headquarters protesting what they call ¡°cold blooded murder" in the brutal killing of James Max Hino/os and Arthur Espinoza.

Andy Espinoza left, son of victim Arthur Espinoza, addresses the Denver city council asking that justice be sought in the shooting that left his father dead.

¡°The day of the people" brought together the young and the old, all of who were concerned about their community.

The mood at "A day of the people" was still one of concern. The event was held to show police intimidation will not scare the community into hiding.