Grand jury witch huntAccused vow non-cooperationPete Escobedo and Margie Covarrubias were indicted earlier this month by the Boulder Grand Jury for their alleged connection with a disturbance at a September 29 meeting of the UCSU Executive Council (student government). The two United Mexican American Students (UMAS) have been the first victims of the grand jury¡¯s ¡°witchhunt¡± to harrass productive members of the movement. Escobedo and Covarrubias are charged with third degree assault for their alleged involvement in a disturbance which began when EC-4, a bill which threatens continued funding of student groups, was passed (see related story). These indictments followed weeks of grand jury hearings by subpoenaed witnesses. Escobedo and Covarrubias were also subpoenaed, but did not appear before the grand jury due to their previous intent on pleading the Fifth Amendment to any questions. Both have taken a firm stance of non-collaboration, fully aware of the many possible consequences.Non-collaboration with any grand jury could result in stiff penalties. While neither Escobedo or Covarrubias testified, grand juries in the past have claimed many victims. The trend of refusing to cooperate begins with the witness pleading the Fifth Amendment on any questions asked. This usually is follwed by the grand jury giving the witness immunity, meaning anything the witness says will not be used against them. Should the witness continue to refuse cooperation, then a charge of contempt of court could result. This process has incarcerated many progressive leaders who struggle to expose the grand jury which is designed to harrass the people and demoralize the movement. Arraignment is scheduled for December 5 at 9:00 a.m. in Judge Scott¡¯s chambers. The Qass 1 misdemeanor charges carry sentences from six to 24 months in the county jail, or fines from $5OO to $5,000 or both, and undoubtedly expulsion from the University. Support is essential if grand jury abuse is to be stopped.