Stereotype a Farce
To seek, to perceive is to become one with life; Understanding the Indian way.
Of all things of the Universe, man the only determinate, is the link between Earth and Sky. Our determining spirit can be made whole only through the learning of our Brothers and Sisters, and with all other Spirits of the Universe. Sioux, Cheyenne, Crow, Blackfeet these are all white mens interpretations. The real name of Indian tribes, spoken in their own tongue means The People, The Human Beings, this is how they look upon themselves and how they want to be seen by others as people. See not only with your two eyes, but also with the one eye which is your heart. John Epes Brown The white man goes into his church house and talks about Jesus, but the Indian goes into his tepee and talks to Jesus, Chief Quanah Parker The Indian lived forever in a land of mystery. Until the white man came, his life was one long, never-ending, religious ceremony. He has seen the unseeable and heard voices which only he could understand. Even the simple tasks of his daily life were transformed by him into rites and prayers. The Indians church is the open sky, his altar a buffalo skull and a pipe. His god Wakan Tanka, the Great Spirit, who is one. He is visible, yet invisible. Wakan Tanka, the Great Mystery, has no beginning and no end. Sky, Sun, Moon, and Earth are all part of Wakan Tanka. Though they were also gods by themselves. So were Thunder and Wind. The Great Spirits symbol is the circle. It stands for the Sun and the Earth, the Tepee and the Sacred Hoop of the Nation. As long as the circle is unbroken, the tribes will flourish. The sacred powers always, work in 'ircles. The eagle, a holy messenger of the ones above, describes a wheel in its flight. The wind moves in round whirls. The sun comes and goes in a circle. If a man is not aware that he, too, has within himself this sacred center, that he is part of the medicine wheel together with all other living creatures, then he is not really a man. In many ways this Circle, the Medicine Wheel, can best be understood if you think of it as a mirror in which everything is reflected. The Universe is the Mirror of the people, the old Teachers tell us, and each person is a Mirror to every other person. All the things of the Universe Wheel have spirit and life, including the rivers, rocks, earth, sky, plants and animals. But it is only man, of all the Beings on the Wheel, who is a determiner. Our determining spirit can be made whole only through the learning of our brothers and sisters, and with all the other spirits of the Universe. To do this we must learn to seek and to perceive. We must do this to find our place within the Medicine Wheel. To determine this place we must learn to Give-Away our physical conscious. The Medicine Wheel Circle is the Universe. It is change, life, death, birth and learning. This Great Circle is the lodge of our bodies, our minds and our hearts. It is the cycle of all things that exist. The Circle is our way of every other thing around us. And for those who seek Understanding, the Circle is their Mirror. The Circle is the Flowering Tree. To Touch and Feel is to Experience. Many people live out their entire lives without ever really Touching or being Touched by anything. These people live within a world of mind and imagination that may move them sometimes to joy, tears, happiness or sorrow. But these people never really Touch. They do not live and become one with life. According to the Teachers, there is only one thing that all people possess equally. This is their loneliness. No two people on the face of this earth are alike in any one thing except for their loneliness. This is the cause of our growing, but it is also the cause of our wars. Love, hate, greed, and generosity are all rooted within our loneliness, within our desire to be needed and loved. The only way that we can overcome our loneliness is through Touching. It is only in this way that we can learn to be Total Beings. God is a presence of this Total Being. Heamavihio, the Breath of Wisdom, and Miaheyyun, Total Understanding, are but two of the words in the Cheyenne language which express this Wholeness. Unlike the white man the Indian met his gods face to face. He is the link between earth and sky. He communicates with the Great Spirit through dreams and visions which tell him what to do. The Indian worshipped alone and in silence. His religion is a very personal thing. His visions are for himself only. He might invent his own ways to communicate with the ones above. He tries to convince nobody that his way is the only right way. On the other hand, nobody interfers with his personal belief. According to his vision, he makes up his personal medicine bag which he opens only when he is alone. His Medicine Bundle and Sacred pipe are his own church, very much like the ark of the convent in the Old Testament. The objects in a mans Medicine Bundle stones and pebbles, roots, the claws or bones of an animal as well as his Sacred Pipe, were not mere inanimate things. They had a life of their own and have great power. People tend to view people as stereotypes. The less we know about a people, the more we are inclined to look upon them as stereotypes and the outside world knew very little about the Indians. Most people have gained their knowledge of Indians from movies and television. Several generations of white children have grown up with the image of a small heroic band of whites successfully standing up to hordes of feathered fiends. If there were too many Indians, the calvary came to the rescue. As the bugle sounded the charge, Hundreds of little hands would clap in glee, but not even the well known bugle call was authentic. The Indians of today are trying to correct this stereotyped image. They are protesting discriminating films, ads, and toys which exploit Indians and show them in a false light. In many cities they picketed A Man Called Horse, a movie widely advertised as authentic, but in which the red hero was played by a Hawaiian, the young heroine by a Greek, and the old Indian grandmother by a white, Anglo-Saxon actress. The movie portrayed the Indians as Stone Age savages mainly occupied with killing each other in various messy ways. Indians want to be seen and understood as they really are. They do not like to be depicted as savages; they do not want to be gushed over sentimentally; they do not want to be romanticized or viewed as living museum exhibits. George Catlin said over a hundred years ago that the Indian "is neither saint or savage.