STOP party wins three seats in student electionThis semester¡¯s student government election was marked by campaigning violations and again a low voter turnout. But in the end three Chicanos who ran for STOP (Students Toward Open Participation) won seats on the UCSU Executive Council and Arts & Sciences Board. Larry Maestas gathered the third highest ballot total for the one of the five open seats on the Executive Council, while Cora Valdez and Dan Lopez both were elected to the UCSU Arts & Sciences Board. CRAP (Critical Rational Analysis Party) during the course of the election was found violating election rules and distributing racist posters. CRAP got into trouble by using wallpaper paste to glue posters around campus. One CRAP member claimed this was done because people were tearing them down right after they went up. Another campaign scheme of CRAP was the distribution of a poster formally protested with the election commissionerby STOP due to its libelous connotations. The poster shows a photograph of a largely minority group that turned out at a UCSU Executive Council meeting to voice their opposition to EC-4, a bill which could threaten funding of student groups (see related story). A banner headline across the top of the poster reads, ¡°If you don¡¯t vote they will¡±. STOP candidates believe the true meaning of the poster is not revealed and only used with an unrelated headline to deceive people who see the poster. CRAP support has beenfalling off recently and the fact that no party member was elected adds to this contention. Only 10 percent of the student body, 2,047, turned out to vote, with three of the five Executive Council winners having shown in the past opposition to EC-4. Hopefully Maestas along with Joe Melendrez and Lissa Levin will work to abolish the bill. Kenneth Brown is strongly in favor of the bill, while fifth place winner Dave Kent is uncertain about EC-4, saying it offers students a choice, but has many problems.From left are Lorry Maestas. Cora Valdez, and C -oper.Muv 'os totaled the third highest votes of five seats on executive Cou ,cil. while Valdez and Lopez both were elected to the Arts and Science Board.