Threats to cut funding of CU student groups defeatedLast semester, the University ot Colo. (Boulder) administration, in collusion with some of the faculty, made serious efforts to eliminate minority students from the campus. The attack at that time was ¡°academic¡± and directed primarily against the Educational Opportunity Program (E.0.P.) The administration failed because the masses of Chicanoblack and progressive Anglo students stood up, united and fought to defend the democratic right to an education. Yet with this victory, we knew we had to prepare for the next attack. It came in the form of the Executive Council EC-2 bill as proposed by the CRAP (Critical Rational Analysis Party) representatives in UCSC, (Univ. of Colo. Student Union) this summer. The aim of this bill was to abolish the present system of student group funding which would eliminate the source of revenue for minority, women, and progressive student organizations on campus. Again a great display of multinational unity was needed and instrumental in its defeat with over 500 persons in attendance at the UCSU meeting. Victory at this meeting was by a narrow margin of 8-6 with 2 abstentions. This margin is indicative of the struggle which will face student groups now in the fall. Currently, plans are being made for a survey and possible referendum in the fall by USCU. It is our duty to become aware of the issue and struggle for a favorable result to the proposed referendum and survey. We must have adequate input into this survey to insure a fair presentation of this controversial question. Their ¡°argument¡± is that C.U. students pay outrageous amount of fees (a total of $89.00/semester last spring). This amount is staggering, but what is important is that only 1.75 from each $89.00 was used to fund more than 50 organizations on campus. Yet CRAP¡¯S ¡°miracle cure¡± was to cut this 2% off student fees. It is a model of modern, political economizing that effects those who can least afford it. They do not mention the other 98% of student fees and the $2.34 of the $89.00 that goes specifically to the UCSU. That EC-2 explicitly allows and reaffirms UCSU¡¯s right to fully benefit from the present system of mandatory fees, but prevents the more than 50 students organizations, which are the backbone of campus life, from such benefits, clearly exposes CRAP¡¯s double standard and hypocritical lamentation over high fees. Another ¡°argument¡± of the sponsors of EC-2, and one that has succeeded somewhat on confusing the real issue, has been the much heralded ¡°right of each individual student to choose¡± which student organizations to fund out of his or her fees, if any. CRAP and other right wing organizations argue vehemently that it is only fair for each student to have the right to decide how to distribute his or her fees. Except that they they restrict that right to mean ¡°the right to distribute only 2% of the fees, namely, those spent on funding 50 or more student organizations. These ¡°guardians of our individual right to choose¡± are nevertheless consistently opposed to students choosing how to distribute the remaining 98% of student fees (specifically that portion which pays certain fat salaries or which create big profits for others). They, in fact, oppose all and any student movement that goes further and demands the right to choose, participate and control the entire educational process at C.U. Now, even if all students did individually distribute 100% of their fees, could anyone seriously argue that funding student organizations that way would be fair for the minority organizations, given the shameful fact that the minorities continue to be grossly under-represented in general student population on C.U. campus? Only ignorant individuals argue that way! When the minority student population faithfully reflects their relative proportion in society, then, and only then, will the wisdom of individually distributing our fees, and then, not 2% of them but all of them! Otherwise, such ¡°projects¡± will guarantee the destruction of minority and progressive student organizations. This attack is another manifestation of the racism which the Student Coalition, a multi-national organization, faced last spring in the struggle with the administration and the attitude with which all students must come to grips. The Student Coalition