Carters recommendations for immigration bill announced
President Carter is expected to present a bill to Congress to deal with the estimated eight million people who enter the U.S. without documentation from government officials. The expected recommendations have been criticized as well as welcomed. Carters recommendations are expected to allow undocumented workers, who have been in this country more than five years, to be granted amnesty, permitted to become permanent residents and allowed to apply for citizenship. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which enforces immigration laws, would be beefed up to provide more money and manpower to patrol borders. Congress would be pressed to enact long-stalled legislation providing civil fines for employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers. U.S. foreign aid would be redesigned with the long term goal of helping those countries from which most of the illegal aliens come, particularly Mexico, to provide adequate employment and education so their people would not need to migrate. Dr. Jorge A. Bustamente, Mexicos leading expert on the illegal immigration problem, states that the Carter program would be a disaster for both countries. He warns that an amnesty would encourage hundreds of thousands more Mexicans to go north in hopes of finding more jobs. Bustamente fears that this would create a vast army of unemployed in the Mexican border shanty-towns. The result, according to Bustamente, would be huge new slums, crime and violence. This would seem to be somewhat exaggerated, although there are arguments for both sides of the issue. The controversies do not pertain to their numbers but to their effect on the U.S. economy. Many people blame undocumented workers for unemployment, welfare costs, crime, slums and low wages! Critics charge however that it seems whenever this society needs a scape goat  for its inability at solving economic problems of inflation, unemployment, wage depression and consumer frustration the undocumented immigrant is a prime target for passing the buck. Former Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Leonard F. Chapman Jr. insists that illegal immigrants are taking jobs from Americans. He rejects the argument that they only take the low-paying jobs that no Americans will have. La&or Secretary F. Ray Marshall, who studied the impact of undocumented immigrants in Texas
before taking his present job, insists that even when they are not actually displacing American workers, undocumented workers tend to lower wage rates because they are willing to work for less. But David S. North and Marion F. Houston, two researchers who have studied the impact of undocumented workers, argue that the availability of illegal workers to take the ,least desirable, lowest paying jobs actually makes it possible for many Americans to hold better jobs. They also note that the thousands of Mexicans who pick vegetables create or support the jobs of Americans in vegetable packing plants and others throughout the transportation and food distribution industry. They say halting the supply of cheap labor would not only eliminate some of those higher level jobs but would dramatically increase the prices of many commodities. This type of lawmaking exists on the state level also. In Colorado there has been a bill in the House of Representatives to penalize employers for hiring undocumented workers and require employers to ask job applicants if they were American citizens. The proponents of this bill said it would have opened up more jobs for unemployed citizens by discouraging employers from hiring undocumented workers and discouraging them from working in Colorado. Yet the legislature does not seem to recognize that this bill may encourage harrassment of Mexican American citizens, especially those who dont speak English. Also, this law appears to be too expensive and difficult to enforce. Recently in Indiana, a bill to subject employers to penalties for employment of illegal aliens was defeated. The bill passed the House on a 53 to 42 vote on March 11, 1977, however was defeated in the Senate Labor Committee by 3 to 4 vote on March 25, 1977. An analysis of the bill indicated that the bill threatened human and civil rights in the Latino community and, if enacted, would have fostered employment discrimination against Latino individuals. There does exist an undocumented worker problem within this country, but only through responsible legislation and cooperation with the Latino people of this country can a dilemma of this nature be solved.