Housing discrimination is one of the most complex areas involved in civil rights. There are both state and federal laws which prohibit discrimination in housing when the discrimination is based on race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry and, in the state law marital status. These laws cover discrimination in the following areas: 1. Showing, renting, leasing, sale, and transfer of housing, commercial housing, commercial property and private homes. 2. The terms, conditions, and privileges of housing. 3. Segregation of housing. 4. Restrictive covenants. There are various other laws that cover housing discrimination in different areas. Some ways of identifying housing discrimination are;
 Were you treated differently than nonminorities or the opposite sex.  Did the owner, manager, agent or realtor inquire about or refer to your race, sex, or marital status.  Were you given the brush off?  Are you given or allowed the same privileges as others. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a housing matter you may file a complaint with the Colorado Civil Rights Commission (CCRC), or the department of housing and urban development. Once you have filed a housing complaint with the CCRC, some of the following steps are taken:  The commission may have Anglo and minority persons test and verify the discrimination.  A civil rights specialist will attempt to settle the complaint immediately.
 If the facts support your case, the director makes a finding of probably cause.  A temporary restraining order and an injunction may be obtained to prevent sale or rental to others.  The case may be taken to a public hearing, if discrimination is found at the hearing, the commissions orders are enforceable by court. In many cases housing discrimination is handled out of court, and does not go into a public hearing, but the procedure to file housing discrimination is the same. If you need help in the future with housing you can contact the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, 1525 Sherman St., Rm. 600 c, Denver, CO 80203, Phone 892-2621 or 8923554.