Greeley Chicanos strive for community controlIn Greeley many of the Chicano residents who are tired of ihe insensitiveness of the city council and the police force towards the needs of the Chicano community have taken steps to overcome the problem by creating a community center and a board of local residents who will oversee its functions. The main thrust behind the center is that it will be controlled by the people of the community and not the city council. The center will offer help in community services that are otherwise not offered to the Chicano community or have lack services if they are. The community center will confront problems such as high juvenile deliquence among Chicano youths, inadequate street lighting, unpaved streets, aid to migrant workers who are having problems in obtaining proper working permits, foodstamps and other social services. Funding for the center will come from the Community Development Fund if the amount requested by the city is granted. This will be the first city-wide project which will be concentrated in the Chicano barrio that will offer services to the local residents. If funding doesn¡¯t come through, the community will find funding elsewhere and rebuild the Apostles for Justice building, a community center now located in Greeley. Many Chicano residents of Greeley believe the Anglo community has made the lines clear between them and the Chicano community. The economy of the area is concentrated around the feedlot industry and related agricultural jobs. The biggest cattle feedlot in the world is located in Greeley and dominates the jobs that are available. In Greeley the Chicano residents feel their community only attains services from the city when direct pressure is put on by the people. Through organizations such as the Apostles for Justice. Many of the issues that they have faced cover a wide spectrum. The district was considering closing Jefferson School which has ninety percent Chicano enrollment, only when the community organized did any action come and the school remained opened. The youths have taken part in many issues in Eaton, a small community outside of Greeley. Chicano teenagers and youths have taken it upon themselves to revitalize a community center, which has had a off-again, on-again history. Maria Garcia, community worker and board member said that the county has taken steps to overcome problems in obtaining services by hiring more Chicanos who can speak Spanish. Through organizing and marching the people have won struggles which may have never come about. To the people, many problems and issues of the past are only examples of what is in store for them in the future. They believe they cannot wait around for the city council to take care of their problems, and to take issues in their hands is the only route.