Chicano-Indio Tribal ConferencePor Eduardo SandovalOn August 10, 11, 12 a caravan of A.I.M. members, Chiefs and Indians from different tribes came to speak and exchange ideas with the Natives, Chicanos, and Meztizos of Colorado. This conference was held at La Buena Mata in Denver (better known as La Casa Del Barrio) where they were provided with housing and services. Later at a rally in Meztizo Park, many Chicanos learned that the natives had just finished with the Sun Dance at the Rose Bud Reservation in South Dakota, lead by the new chief, Chief Leonard Crow Dog. Sharing with everybody the power of the Sun Dance, Chief Leonard Crow Dog (the new chief¡¯s ceremony was held at this year¡¯s Sun Dance taking the place of Chief Eagle Feather) along with Frank Black Elk (grandson or Black Elk) also the chief of the Santee Sioux and members of A.I.M. expressed the need for high unity withthe Chicano spiritually and politically. The caravan¡¯s destiny is to take the power of the Sun Dance to the Sun Dance lead by Dennis Banks at D.Q.U. (a Chicano Indian University in San Jose California). The caravan will be speaking in different states and cities of Aztlan and returning to Denver for another conference. The exchange of religious beliefs and social ways of ancestral tribes such as the Zapoteca, the Mayan culture, the Incas, the Aztec and others brought about great spiritual unity that is a common reminder of our essence of being gente de la Tierra (people of the land). The Chicano, the Meztizo, has been the victim of a cultural deprivation, the taking away of one side of a culture or religion by the exploitation suffered through the past and present centuries is now beginning to form a new reality, a new way of life which is guided by¡°unity and love.¡± A nation is a people bound by a National Spirit sharing a common destiny searching for a common way. Originally Indios studied the movement of the stars and planets. They built great pyramids and strived on creativity of their knowledge without hurting the Mother Earth or the Father Sun. Now more than ever more spiritual unity is needed, greediness and jealousy were emotions unknown long ago. The brothers described the Chicano struggle as being the same as the Natives struggle. Chief Crow Dog, A.I.M. and the representatives from as far as Canada were there to show solidarity to the victims of the Curtis Park murders. This is a reality which is happening to us all and by uniting forces spiritually and mentally we may overcome the barrier that has unabled us to create and search for more balance in our world. The Sun Dance Way is a prayer and away in which we could search for more b. .ance, for more wholeness in ourselves. ¡°The Sun Dance is the Granddady Ceremony of the Sioux Nation¡± expressed Chief Eagle Feather who brought back the Sun Dance and piercing which was prohibited by the Washishu (gringo) for a very long time. Unlike many other religions the Sun Dance has not changed for over 10,000 years. Frank Black Elk explains that ¡°piercing in the Sun Dance is the Ultimate Sacrifice a Warrior could do for his people.¡± Your ownself, the only thing you can give in the universe so your people won¡¯t have to suffer so much, could be part of the balance.One is to be totally sincere with oneself when giving flesh offerings. The Sun Dance is also a prayer in which man, woman, or child goes through, for different reasons, such as for more unity amongst the tribes or people. The washishu saw it as barbaric and savagelike looking at it from a foreign perspective and distorting its reasons. Chief Leonard Crow Dog said that ¡°the Sun Dance is a Red Man¡¯s dance for red men only.¡± This includes Chicanos, we are represented as one of the 12 tribes that participated in this years and past years Sun Dances at Rose Bud, South Dakota. ¡°Since this is the red man¡¯s dance, Chief Crow Dog says that Chicanos are to be respected as Indian people and it is time for the Red man and the Brown man to become ¡°One Mind!!¡± so to unite forces to win our struggle for liberation¡± and a sovereign nation. Like the Revolution the Independence War in Mexico of 1821 when the meztizo the Indio and people of the land united their forces to win their war against the Spaniards. They won the war but lacked leadership to continue their liberation. We must have strategy and leadership in our struggle. Like the Taos Pueblo Indians and meztizos lead by Chief Pope in 1680 revolted against the Spaniards. It is in our Chicano-Indio blood to suffer and struggle for our people to live. The war of the land is the same in San Luis, Colorado and Tierra Amarilla as it is back in Wounded Knee and the Sacred Black Hills. Educational, economically we are allsurging for the same goal of being a sovereign nation. The Sioux Treaty of 1868, Fort Larirrie, and our Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo of 1848 were both broken. Thus, the U.S. Government is guilty of violating International Law. The 12 tribes united into a intertribale council known as the Red Nations .Sun Dance to promote spiritual awareness and unity that could perpetuate an understanding of people, who are in tune with the balance of life. We have come to I understanding, all of us,  white, black, yellow, | and us red people. I thank the powers of the four winds, and to the Grandfather, Great Spirit, " and I thank the sacred t Mother Earth, Grandmother. Thank you. ask you and bless all people here, from the powers of the four winds, and Grandfather, Great Spirit, we thank you this day that we are alive, Grandmother we thank you for keeping us alive. jL Grandmother we stand here on your lap and once again you cradle us in your arms, and feed us, and comfort us, and heal us and forgive us. Metakuyeayase - all my relations. Before leaving Chief Leonard Crow Dog, teacher of the Sun Dance Way offered a prayer of peace to all his relations. He then passed around a sacred pipe which belonged to Sitting Bull (This had been in the possession of the washishu until recently) saying ¡°This is to show a newly revitalized unity.¡± Then a flesh offering was made to us all.