Police slander Mestizo park victimsSelf preservation is something we all have in common. The police officers that participated in the July 30th shooting in Curtis Park, in which two Chicano men were shot under questionable circumstances, are no exceptions. As well as the victims, who in their inebriated condition, may not have realized that the two officers, both in civilian dress, were actually police officers and decided to defend themselves. This mistake could easily been made, under the circumstances, as easily as the officers could have hidden the racial animosity that might have driven them to over act in a situation that perhaps could have been settled in a less forceful manner. The truth of these and other assumptions are now, hopefully, being determined by the grand jury investigation. But who will judge or reprimand a officer of the police department who has made a statement that might be seen as an attempt to sway the course of that investigation. What is being referred to is a statement by Captain Jerry Kennedy, reported by the Rocky Mountain News, where he said that Artie Espinosa, one of the men slain in Curtis Park, ¡°was a real bum and a 5.0.8.¡± As if to imply by this declaration that just because a man is a bum and a 5.0.8. this should relieve the police department of the very caution that it must exercise in an effort to make sure that all alleged law breakers are apprehended in as safe a manner as possible, if only to protect the lives of innocent bystanders. It is obvious from his remarks that Captain Kennedy has a low opinion of the deceased, but until the validity of these words can be determined they should be viewed as nothing more than hearsay or speculation, therefore reducing their immediate value of nothing more than common street gossip. These words can also be seen as a move to reduce any influence that an outraged Chicano community might have on public opinion. For there is a chance that the publicity resulting from this incident could lead to a more unified demand that a civilian police review board be appointed. Captain Kennedy¡¯s statement reeked of innuendo and the effect that these words will have on the final outcome of this tragedy cannot be estimated. A few almost casual words, a supposedly careless statement is all that is necessary to give the police department the critical edge that is needed to gain the sympathy of the public. With this mandate they can avert any criticism of their conduct and defeat any challenge from the minority community. O.W. Martinez