On August 13, 1974, Herbert Dixon, an 18-year-old Black youth, was sentenced to 5-20 years in the Colorado State Penitentiary for robbery and assault. He was later transferred to Buena Vista Reformatory and eventually released in September, 1976. 4 months after his release, on January 14, 1977, Herbert Dixon was dead, shot in the back by an off-duty police officer who had sworn revenge. In connection with Dixons death, the Rocky Mountain News was told that Dixon was the prime suspect in the December 1973 slaying of Carpenter, a state patrolman, in Montbello, and the Denver Post reported that Herbert Dixon was among several suspects questioned in connection with the murder. Captain Tom Lindquist, Denver Police Department, told the Denver Post that Dixon was questioned by police following the patrolman's murder but was never charged. Dixon was repeatedly interrogated about the incident while in prison. His family, friends and neighbors, were consistently harrassed and questioned about Herberts alleged involvement in the patrolmans death. The Denver police were convinced that Herbert Dixon had killed the patrolman. He was their prime suspect, although according to Detective Tom Lohr, It was nothing we could really prove.
What actually happened the night that Herbert Dixon was killed? We may never know. The Denver Police Department has refused to allow Herberts family to read the police reports surrounding the death. Yet contradictory information has been given to the news media. The first report put out by the newspapers stated that Herbert had been shot in the chest. Later stories revealed that Herbert had in fact been shot in the back. Police further admit that a paper bag which Dixon allegedly held while he ran was never found. Officers did manage to find another gun at the scene which they claim belonged to Dixon but which Meyers was not aware of until after the shooting. Why the Denver Police Department refuses to release the reports to the family and why they deny Myers knew Dixon is not known. On October 1, 1976, the mayor appointed a Citizens Police Advisory Review Committee to investigate all incidents of police violence. Yet since that time, police abuses have not diminished and have not been prevented. The Dixon incident is evidence of this as is the police invasion of Eudora Tates house whose door was kicked in and her 2 and 3-year-old grandchildren held at gunpoint in her home by police officers.
The community has seen that the answer to police brutality against the people cannot be found in a committee appointed by the same official who appoints the Chief of Police. The answer partially lies in the organization and mobilization of the community itself against police violence. Those interested or those who have been a victim of police brutality and want to do something, can contact: Citizen Committee Against Police Brutality, 572-9414 (Denver)