By Pat Salazar
In Tucson, Arizona La Patrulla Frontcrizo (border patrol) has alleged that the employees of the Manzo Council have been helping Mexican immigrants receive illegal benefits.
On finding no evidence of illegal activity from the documents at the Manzo Council office, the Patrulla look the case to the federal government to be investigated. The Manzo Council was founded in 1965 and is financed by the Community Services Administration of the United States. The personnel and volunteers serve the area residents in Tucson, most of whom speak only Spanish. The counseling services offered by Manzo to Mexican immigrants are only a part of the work vital to the program. Manzo also provides recreational programs for children and the elderly, job placement, advice for tenants, references  for those who need emergency food and housing, legal assistance and help in resolving a number of other problems. During the summer the Patrulla Fronterizo found documents from the Manzo Council that they used to deport 150 Mexican immigrants who were attempting to gain citizenship. At the same time the federal grand jury investigated the Manzo Council and in October they accused four Manzo employees of 25 charges. They allegedly helped transport immigrants illegally, helped them evade inspection, aided criminals, gave false testimony, and are also charged with conspiracy. One charge of illegally transporting immigrants refers to the case of a 15-year-old Mexican girl who they took to a Juvenile Court hearing to request if she could be married. Margo Cowan, Director of Manzo is accused of 25 charges with a maximum of 77 years in prison and a fine of $98,500; Cathy Montano is accused of 13 charges with 42 years in prison and a fine of $52,500; Margie Ramirez is accused of 12 charges with a maximum of 37 years in prison and a fine of $47,500; and Sister Ann Gabriel is accused of 3 charges with 10 years in prison and a $15,000 fine. The investigation was conducted by the Immigration Council, which is approved by the Economic Opportunity Committee of Tucson under the regulation of the Economic Opportunity Administration of the United States. The employees of Manzo give advice to persons who dont have documents but who have the right to live in this country or provide help through a family who are citizens to provide a legal canal for the immigrants legalization in the United States. The felony charges the employees of Manzo are facing are based on an arbitrary interpretation of the statutes of the Immigration Department and could also signify the end of each of the services provided by such immigration programs.