The recent court decision arising from the lawsuit filed against the University of California (see related story) could have disastrous affects for all Chicanos in higher education. The hard fought battle of minorities to gain acceptance into Anglo universities may be on the verge of defeat, if the California Supreme Court ruling is carried out to include all Special Admissions programs at all universities. Special Admissions programs serve to grant minorities an opportunity to receive an education and subsequently improve minority communities which have suffered from years of racism and exploitation. Yet what the California Supreme Court ruling is saying is that the effort to educate and politicize all sectors of the population is unconstitutional. It is obvious many of the minority students of this country would have not been allowed into universities had it not been for Special Admissions Programs. This is not to say that minorities are inherently ignorant, but that the socializing institutions of this country have been geared for those in power, adhering to their priorities and placing minorities at a disadvantage by ignoring their interests. It was no the white establishment which so graciously decided to be generous and give a small slice of the American pie to minorities by creating programs to increase the number of minority students at it's universities. No. rather it was the dedicated, self-sacrificing effort of concerned minorities, many of whom died in the process, to demand their right to an education. The university administration may have had to alter their admissions procedures, but not to place minorities at an advantage over Anglos, but to compensate for the years of disadvantage minorities have had to deal with. While students would be directly affected by the ruling, the community will ultimately bear the consequences. Chicano communities have been in need of professionals and the only way to train Chicanos is through education. By denying minorities access into colleges, it will continue to perpetuate the powerless, low economic status of Chicanos. There are only 250 Chicano doctors in the country, and yet Chicanos have the life expectancy of 6.3 years less than Anglos and the infant mortality rate of the Chicanos is twice that of Anglos.
Lack of under-representation in the legal profession has kept Chicanos powerless against injustice. By denying Chicanos access into law schools, Chicanos will have to continue to live with polic brutality, harassment and injustice in the courts. The University of California Regents are appealing the ruling, but according to an article in the December issue of El Popo, Ten years ago, it was the Regents attorney who oppossed Affirmative Action and it is the Regents attorneys who are currently oppossing integration in the University of California faculty. Now these same attorneys are expected to defend a Special Admissions Program ... Although the ruling may be in the process of appeal and presently particular to California, Chicanos and minorities everywhere should be aware of this dangerous threat to our right to an education and how utterly powerless we may be. On the one hand the Supreme Court cap rule against Special Admissions Programs and the only defense is a group of people concerned with government interests rather than the interests of minorities.