Puerto Rican activities investigatedStory courtesy of La Cucaracha Although Chicano activist Ricardo Romero refused to answer questions put to him by a federal grand jury in Chicago about the Puerto Rican independence movement, he was not ordered to jail on the contempt of court charge that many thought would follow his action. Ricardo appeared Nov. 2 before a federal judge in Chicago whom Romero¡¯s attorneys had asked to disqualify himself for his prejudice against the defendants in the case. Thus far eight persons have been jailed in New York City and Chicago for refusing to cooperate with the grand juries investigating Puerto Rican activists. The judge refused to disqualify himself, and ordered Ricardo to appear before the grand jury. ¡°There were 23 people in the grand jury,¡± Romero said, ¡°and besides one or two Blacks, they were all old white people.¡± Romero refused to take the oath administered to all witnesses, and then steadily refused to answer any questions put to him.To the question ¡°Have you ever transported blasting caps or dynamite across state lines,¡± and ¡°have you ever had in your possession stolen blasting caps,¡± Romero again replied, ¡°I refuse to testify.¡± To the question ¡°Have you ever stolen dynamite In the state of Colorado,¡± Romero replied, "I refuse to answer.¡± Romero was then taken back to Judge Parson¡¯s court, where after a procedural delay. Parsons told Romero to go back home and think about your actions. ¡¯ ¡¯ Parsons said he needed time to look over the grand jury transcripts in the case before ruling on Romero¡¯s refusal to testify, and ordered Romero to appear again in Chicago Nov. 9. Incredible Powers Romero said the underlying reason for his actions and those taken by the eight jailed gente are not clear to many people."The grand jury has Incredible abusive powers,¡± Romero said "its only purpose Is to Intimidate people and disrupt organizations.¡± The first two activists jailed refused to testify before the NYC grand jury; however, the others were jailed for refusing to provide identification material such as fingerprints, hair samples, and voiceprints to the grand Jury. ¡°Once they found that people would not cooperate in any way with the grand jury, they began jailing people for refusing to provide fingerprints, not for any wrongdoing,¡¯¡¯ Romero said. None of those jailed has committed any crime, Romero said. ¡°My only ¡¯crime¡¯ has been the support of complete and unconditional independence for Puerto Rico, and for the reunification of Mexico,¡± he said. The current grand jury¡¯s term expires in Feb. of 1978. If Judge Parsons finds Romero in contempt for his actions, Romero could .be jailed until the term expires, ¡°and a new grand jury can be impaneled foranother 14 months, meaning people could be jailed for that length of time for the same reasons,¡± Romero said. About 350 supporters showed up at the federal court building for the hearing, Romero said, including 100 Iranians, 200 Puerto Ricans, and a few Blacks and Anglos. Romero is being represented by Dennis Cunningham and Michael Duetsch of the People¡¯s Law Center, an organization of about 10 lawyers who share their generated fees for mutual support. ¡°These lawyers are as good as (William) Kunstler or any of those others,¡± Romero said, ¡°but they¡¯re not publicity hounds, so you don¡¯t hear about them. ¡¯ ¡¯ In response to the widespread use of the grand Jury across the country, a conference has been called for Nov. 18 - 20 in Chicago to discuss grand jury repression of the Puerto Rican and Chicano/Mejicano struggles, Romero said. The main goal of the conference is the eradication of the grand jury, and Romero urged all concerned people to attend the conference.