Parents look to Frente to aid struggleEconomic cutbacks to programs which were created to aid the disadvantaged and minorities are becoming more numerous, in light of the bleak economic crisis this country is experiencing. In the sixties major struggles were taken up by minorities in this country to demand democratic rights. Many who took up the struggle dedicated their lives in order that others would benefit, but the struggle of many who fought for these rights is more and more threatened. The Bakke case which is now before the Supreme Court is proof that possibilities of rights being eliminated are very evident. The struggle that students¡¯ organizations are taking up here at the University of Colorado to fight cuts of student funding reflects that more and more people are becoming aware that such threats do exist, and action should be taken in order that rights won through struggle will be insured. In Greeley, Colorado, cutbacks which were made by the local school board created problems, which reflect the severity they can have on people. Last year the school board recommended that Jefferson Elementary School be closed. The school is on the east side of Greeley, and has ninety percent Chicano enrollment. The reason for wanting closure was that the school district was lacking funds. Parents and concerned people took up a struggle with the school board, and succeededin keeping the school open. This action was taken last February and March. Many more important issues have risen and have been struggled with which involve education. One struggle was the need for a bus, which would be used to carry children to Billy Martinez Elementary School. The issue involved children who had to walk through routes which took them past unguarded railroad crossings, no sidewalks and no street lights at intersections. Many of the students had to walk as much as a mile to attend classes, and because of the cold weather which is approaching and the hazardous conditions that face them, anger and concern for their children arose among the parents.This prompted the parents to go to A1 Frente de Lucha, an organization which bases itself on fighting for democratic rights which Chicano people are entitled to. It sees the need to fight in a revolutionary way, by uniting Chicanos with other movements of oppressed people, working class, to organize and fight for quality education, bilingual, bicultural education, the rights of migrant workers, and to struggle against police oppression every day. These principles of unity is what A1 Frente is based on. The leadership of A1 Frente has proven their fighting ability, to the people of Northern Colorado and this is why the parents looked to A1 Frente to lead the struggle.The struggle to gain a bus was taken through a community meeting called by A1 Frente, where about sixty parents and concerned community people met to plan how to confront the school board. A meeting was called with the school board and the city council. Through this organizing done by A1 Frente and the community, the city agreed to furnish a bus for the north side children. A1 Frente and the community know that they have to keep a watchful eye on the city council, so that it can carry out the concession that was gained by struggling through organizing the people.