The Association Nacional de Grupos Folkloricos (A.N.G.F.) is dedicated to the research, preservation, presentation and education of la cultura Indigena and Mestiza as well as other related folklore within the realms of dance, music and art. In 1974, through the efforts of many people from throughout the various states of the Southwest an organization of all folkloric groups was created. The first national conference of the A.N.G.F. was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Since that time the A.N.G.F. has held a national Festival every year, the second being in San Jose, California and the third in Pueblo, Colorado.
Each year dancers and musicians from throughout the United States congregate at the site selected during the previous Festival to share in movement blocks, seminars, lectures, demonstrations and organized public performances. Dance masters of superb qualifications and personalities are invited from the various states of Mexico to share their regional dances and original choreographies with the member groups. For nearly a week the dancers Fill the rooms and hallways with the lively pounding of their zapateados while the musicians and singers fill the air with the rhythms, melodies and verses of the ever popular "sones and corridos.
Areas for study range from the nearly primitive dances of Sonora and Guerrero to well known and ever popular regions of Jalisco and Veracruz. The evenings are set aside for lectures and demonstrations prepareu especially by the instructions for the A.N.G.F. members with topics ranging from history and culture to costuming and makeup. The Festival however is not all fun, music and dance. Several sessions are scheduled throughout the week to take care of A.N.G.F. business. States caucus and elect new Board members. Board of Directors elections to the A.N.G.F. are conducted yearly with the number of representatives per state dependent upon the number grupos from that state. Last years Festival saw over 200 delegates from twelve different states as far east as New Jersey and as far west as California and Washington. The Asociacion Nacional de Grupos Folkloricos offers the opportunity to developed, beginning groups and individuals alike. The history, philosophy, costuming, music and dance of the Indigenous, Mestizo and Hispanic cultures, as well as the technical arts and stagecrafts are all offered. The fourth annual Festival of the A.N.G.F. will be held in Seattle, Washington in June and will feature dances from Puebla, Jalisco and Yucatan, Mexico. The A.N.G.F. extends an open welcome to all musicians, singers, dancers and other interested persons to attend the Fourth Annual Festival and to become members of the Associacion Nacional de Grupos Folkloricos. Information regarding membership, dates, and Festival information can be obtained by writing to your state representative. Representatives from Colorado are:
Grace Espinoza (A.N.G.F. Secretary) c/o UMAS-EOP Dance Component. 400 Administrative Annex University of Colorado Boulder, Colo. 80302 Herman Martinez 6819 Redwing Land Alamosa, Colo. 81101 Earl Boyer 118 E. 9th Walsenburg, Colo. 81089 Arturo Almaguer (Board Member at large) c/o ALMA Program Box 25 Adams State College Alamosa, Colo. 81102 Membership information can also be obtained by writing to: Robin J. Corralejo (A.N.G.F. Treasurer) 801 Capitol Mall Sacramento, Calif. 95814
Ballet Folklorico from the University of Colorado practices the dances of Sonora and Guerrero, Mexico.
Dance instructor Grace Espinoza (center) watches as students perform a dance routine.