Mexican National continues to be scapegoat for U.S. economyThe Mexican national seeking employment in the U.S. continues to be the scapegoat for unemployment and bad economic conditions in the country. The government and media keep this mode of thinking constant by supporting stricter immigration regulations. In favorable economic conditions the U.S. has recruited Mexicans for labor in the states. After the war between the U.S. and Mexico in 1848, the southwest United States, called Aztlan, a nation of millions of Raza came to be governed by a foreign nation. The rapid growth of the area demanded workers, so Mexicans constructed railroads, many of today¡¯s towns were railroad labor camps. In 1923 another demand for laborers in the Bethlehem Steel Company and Automotive Companies recruited thousands of immigrants for their plants. As long as the U.S. economy needed workers, immigrants were admitted into the U.S. without much difficulty, even after the Immigration Law of 1917. In 1929, during the Depression, industry and agri-business begansystematically harassing people with orwithout proper papers. The following year, Americans started accusing Mexicans of taking their jobs. Since signing the agreement in 1942, of the Bracero program and the United States, Mexican Nationals have been used to satisfy the needs of the American agri-business. The end of the Bracero program, in 1964 signalized the renewing of efforts to unionize farmworkers in the United States. The Carter Administration helped anew this, when 809 undocumented workers were allowed to harvest onions near Presidio, Texas. President Theodore Roosevelt, in 1933, eliminated numerous agencies and instead established the INS. Undocumented workers, who seek help with immigration laws aren¡¯t going to risk getting deported. The INS is a lawenforcement agency first, with any other functions secondary to its primary purpose. Amnesty for immigrants has become a standing problem that has grown acutely. And it faces the Carter Administration with a classic policy dilemma. Daily, 3,000 people enter this country illegally. According to the INS there are 6 million undocumented workers today. The majority of aliens come from Latin America and half are from Mexico. President Carter promulgated a statement that he would take action to alliviate deportation to some who have already established roots in the United States. The Department of Labor suggested that workers be barred because farmers don¡¯t make adequate efforts to seek American Laborers; however, Carter and INS refused to accept that view. Protests from the United Farm Workers (U.F.W.) union said INS urged farmers to avoid improving their substandard housing, which relates to the reason why many American laborers ever consider farm work. Stuart Eizenstat, domestic affairs advisor, opposes extentions of and the number of visas granted to immigrant laborers. During April 1977, opponents rejected the idea of a blanket amnesty for immigrants who established residency in the U.S. for five years or more and were law abiding citizens. It was decided that this proposal would increase the unemployment rate in the U.S. and would depress our government budget. ¡°Non-deportation¡± for immigrants, who are settled residents, was suggested, but those who opposed said it was another name for amnesty. The drought today in Colorado discouraged domestic workers from taking the jobs and is drawing a larger number of immigrants to farm work. Approximately 50 to 70 percent of the farmworkers in the Arkansas Valley are undocumented workers. According to Colorado Rural Legal Services (CRLS), the farmworkers are experiencing more exploitation this summer than ever before. They came to this country despite low wages, substandard housing, scarce jobs, and unsafe working conditions. Those handling the ax are the U.S. businessmen and government officials, who are responsible for today¡¯s current situation. Their actions speak for them, the abuse of minorities is nothing new. Amnesty may not be granted, but something should be done about the racist actions of the INS, especially during deportation.