TFW march reaches GeorgiaThe Texas Farm Workers Union¡¯s (TFW) 1500 miles ¡°March for Human Rights¡± from Austin to the nation¡¯s capital is well on it¡¯s way with the marchers deep into Georgia. The marchers are seeking to gain support from the President and the American people to attain two goals. Primarily the TFW is struggling to obtain collective bargaining rights for agricultural workers. In addition the repealing of section 148 of the TaftHartley Act (see related article), which is known as the ¡°right to work¡± law. The TFW believes their efforts will be for nothing without repeal of right to work laws. A right to work law provides neither rights nor work. It is a law passed by individual states which takes away the right of workers to organize a union. To dramatize the fact that of 20 ¡°right to work¡± states, 11 are in the south, the TFW is following a march route covering 8 of these states. The marchers will continue through Georgia then north into the Carolinas, Virginia and into Washington, D.C. The 48 constant marchers are averaging 20 miles a day and are committed to reaching the capitol by September 5, Labor Day. In Mississippi the marchers were arrested for having an unauthorized school bus in a school district. In Austin, House Bill 1325, the collective bargaining bill in support of farmworkers is still in committee. The bill, introduced earlier this year by state legislators Paul Moreno and Gonzalo Barrientos, has a good chance of passing if it gets out of committee and reaches the floor. The TFW has asked Cesar Chavez, president of the United Farm Workers Union to endorse the march, as yet Chavez has not responded. Conflict between the two unions began in 1975. UFW organizers at the time felt unprepared for the melon strike and unhappy over the severe press coverage. This resulted in ill feelings and contrasting opinions between Texas organizers and UFW officials. The UFW then withdrew backing of the Texas farm workers. Shortly after, former UFW secretary-treasure, Antonio Orendain stayed in Texas and together with the workers formed the TFW.