Penetentes in the SouthwestEd's Sole: The article listed below was taken from an interview done by staff member Miguel Morales, interviewing Mr. Manuel Naranjo, instructor of Folklore of the South West. The subject matter was centered around Penetentes and the role they played with concern to the first Spanish settlers of the Southwest. ¡°FOLKLORE IN THE SOUTHWEST¡¯¡¯ Q: How did the penetentes view themselves? A: Penetentes viewed themselves as priests, who through penance were attempting to make themselves worthy of the trust that had been given to them by the community. This trust was not simply religious. Among the tasks of the penetentes was going and seeing if all the religious organizations were going well, and also making sure that there were people to sing ¡°alvagas¡± when anybody died in the community, also making sure people were baptized when there wasn¡¯t a priest available. All of these examples were taken care of by the penetentes. Q: Was there a dominant "Figure among the penetentes? A: Yes, there was a group of officials elected, who were called ¡°Los manos de la luz¡±. The head of this group was known as ¡°El mano mayor¡±. This man (El mano mayor) was usually elected for life. This person was a very respected man in the community, and because of his leadership qualities, was usually chosen for this position. It was his duty to guide the organization. In order to become a penetente, the group was required to have three things in common. The first being you had to be catholic, and the second thing was that you had to be of Spanish nature, and last of all, you had to gain the permission of your mother or your wife. A lot of the reasons for this was that they had to take care of people, and I am talkingabout the penetentes when they first started (not later on in their history). When they first started they were a social group, which meant that they had to take care of those that did not have someone to take care of them. They had to be ready for any situation that involved their services. Q: What did the penetentes do during ¡°Holy Week¡±? A: Well, ¡°Holy Week¡± was the most important week for the penetentes as far as their organization was concerned. They were usually gone from their homes at first, when the week started. And during that week they went through different ceremonies which were secret, and no one was allowed to enter the building to watch the ceremony. But they did have an interesting part of the ceremony where they would go out at night and make pilgrimages to different areas. This was the time when people would take pictures of the penetentes flagellating themselves. (Flagellating wasthe process of taking whips and beating their backs until their backs would bleed.) ¡°Holy Week¡± was a penance they did, and the reason that they did this penance was simply (a lot of people thought this was a barbaric method of penance) that the penetentes believed that in order for the spiritual part of a person to actually emerge over the physical part, there was a certain amount of physical benign s that had to be carried out. This is where ¡°fasting¡± comes in. It does not mean that if you fast or hit yourself you¡¯re going to heaven. The act itself was not as important as the fact that what you were actually doing was denying the physical comfort in favor of the spiritual ones. This is what the penetentes believed in, this is what was never stressed. Penance, and fasting were an attempt to deny the body, the comforts that it sought, because by doing this, by suppressing the physical part of the body, you could let thespiritual one emerge. And that is what they were trying to do. Q: Did the acts of the penetentes during ¡°Holy Week¡± have anything to do with the acts of Jesus? A: Later on of course, especially during ¡°Good Friday¡±, they actually went through a ceremony called the fourteen stations of the cross. What this ceremony called for was the choosing of a person willing to carry a life-size cross made of beams, and willing to go through the fourteen steps Jesus did while carrying his cross to Calvary. The penetentes were not alone in this ceremony; their families would also join in. Q: How was symbolism involved in this ceremony? A: One of the most symbolic of the whole thing was probably the last one the penetentes celebrated; which was called ¡°Tinevlas¡±. This ceremony was very symbolic, because what you had was a chandelier with fifteen candleslined in a row, and the middle candle being the highest, and the remaining fourteen tapering down from the center candle. The highest candle in the middle of the ¡°tinevla¡± represents Jesus Christ. The candle on the left represents Joseph, and the candle on the right represents Mary. The rest of the candles represent the 12 disciples. The ceremony started off by lighting the candles at the lower part of the ¡°tinevla¡±. The lighting then proceeded to the othercandles, until all of them were out except for the middle candle. After the last candle was out, the penetentes would be stationed at various parts of the church. Then they would crack their whips and start moaning, crying, and using their different instruments to cause loud noise. This noise symbolized the thunder, lightning, and chaos that happened after Jesus died on the cross. Q: According to my understanding, and from what I have read, the penetenteswere denounced by the catholic church. Is this true? A: Yes, the penetentes were denounced by the catholic church at one time. A Father Lamie (who later became Bishop, then Archbishop Lamie) denounced the penetentes by calling them a barbaric cult that had no place in the catholic church. They were supposedly thrown out of the church, and threatened with excommunication if they didn¡¯t repent. Father Lamie was a cultured Frenchman who really didn¡¯t knowanything about their religion. He made a big attempt to get them out, and of course he failed because the penetentes were too strong. They were strong in the community, and could possibly have gone underground when Father Lamie tried to have them thrown out of the catholic church. O: How did the chicanos view the penetentes? A: The chicano community didn¡¯t really view them in an out of the ordinary way. They were viewed as a part of thecommunity, and as part of a religious organization. The chicanos themselves viewed them differently than the nonchicano. When people that were foreign to the land saw the penetentes, they saw them as either comical or barbaric. People have to stop looking at the penetentes as barbaric. The penetentes served a social and religious function that kept the community in harmony.