By Thomas Martinez
In 1969, a meeting took place in New York between the Chicano media activists and some important media organizations. At that time, we were strongly protesting the Frito-Bandito and other offensive commercials. We called upon our political representatives in Congress to speak out on behalf of the media movement; we spoke to community groups to make them aware of the influence of the media upon our identity and image; and, we picketed events, such as the Academy Awards. Reuben Salazar was one of the media activists I came to know in the course of the early movement to change the media. He was a reporter for the Los Angeles Times and General Manager of KMEXTV in L.A. Reuben was also at
the meeting in New York, which was set up with the help of Mr. John W. Gardner, President of the National Urban Coalition (now he is the head and founder of the citizen lobby group, Common Cause) and Mr. Gil Pompa, Associate Director of the Community Relations Services, U.S. Department of Justice. Some of the top management from the media who were at the New York meeting included: Edward P. Morgan, Correspondent; Clifton Daniel, Associate Editor, New York Times; Katherine Graham, President Newsweek-Washington Post; Randolph Hearst, of the Hearst newspapers; the head of the National Advertising Council; and, high officials from the major television networks. The other media activists sitting around the table included: Ray Martel Jwho first publically blasted the media, calling the movie executives "racist, bigoted dogs and suffered their blacklisting for it), head of CARISSMA (Council to Advance and Restore the Image of the Spanish Speaking and Mexican American); Nick Reyes, Director of the National Mexican American Anti-Defamation Committee (which was located in Washington, D.C.); Tony Calderon, Director of IMAGE in San Antonio; Hank Lopez, noted author; and, Armando Rendon, who wrote the Chicano Manifesto. 1 was very proud of my colleagues as we argued with the media men, never giving an inch, and demanding immediate changes in their policies toward raza. Reuben coordinated much of the meeting along with Hank Lopez. I met with Reuben and Hank three weeks after the New York meeting in Los Angeles. He told me about his fight against the police brutality. He planned to spend the weekend at my house. But, in the course of the passing week, the L.A.P.D. blew his brains out during a police riot in East Los Angeles. He died for the very things that were being aired in that New York meeting. 1 will never forget him. (L-R) Ray Martel, actor. Dr Tomas Martinez; the late Ruben Salazar. L A Times editorial writer Ruben Salazar, an editorial writer for the L.A. Times continually pressured the national media to expose the plight of the Chicano. August 29, 1970 Salazar was killed by L.A. police during an anti-war moratorium.