Despite election loss UFW continues to grow
United Farm Workers
By Robert Garcia
The California agricultural growers were able to deceive the general public into voting down Proposition 14, the farm labor initiative on the past November 2 ballot, which was defeated by 17 to 1 margin. Proposition 14 would have guaranteed funding of the Agricultural Labor Relations Act (ALRA). Proposition 14 and the ALRA are basically the same thing. Had Proposition 14 passed, any chance of the ALRA cease functioning, as what happened last spring, would have been prevented, due to it becoming a state law. One of the provisions in the ALRA would allow union organizers to enter growers farms to inform workers of their rights. This "access rule only permits organizers to enter farms at lunch and before and after work. This rule is necessary because many farm workers live on the farms and almost never leave the farm during the harvest season. During the period preceding the election, grower sponsored propaganda proclaimed the access rule a violation of private property. Another misleading statement by growers claimed the ALRA would be ona limitless budget. But if proposition 14 had passed, any additional funding would be left up to the discretion of the state legislature. This was something the growers failed to reveal. Another provision would require growers to supply lists of workers so there would be no doubt of who was employed. Union organizers sought this information because often it was impossible to contact workers. Many have no stable addresses or telephone numbers. Grower propaganda stated that this was an invasion of personal privacy. Hardly a fact in this situation. Proposition 14 also would have made growers or unions, found guilty of unfair labor practices, pay damages. This law would have kept employers from firing farm workers involved in union activity. Through their expensive media campaign, the growers .were able to confuse the public to what the issues really were. But the loss denied farm workers a law with teeth in it, unlike the present ALRA which is subject to legislative change. But even now the UFW is working to assure refunding of the ALRA by the state legislature in June. At the moment six months funding remains for the current ALRA. 82 per cent of Californias 300,000 farm workers still have not had union elections. If the UFW can continue to add to its past victories, the larger membership might influence the legislature in June. Past History shows many pluses for the UFW. Victory in their first four elections and a reported agreement between the Teamsters and UFW, stating the Teamsters will leave farm workers alone and concentrate only on cannery workers and truckers brightens the picture. Also present unionized growers support the ALRA to assure them their competition will not undersell them, is another.positive aspect. But how the politicians will vote following the defeat of Proposition 14 still remains to be seen.