Recent land grant controversies have developed from the proposed monetary compensation by the Mexican government to the heirs of the Texas land grants which were lost after the MexicanAmerican War. In June of 1976 Reis Lopez Tijerina of the Alianza de los Pueblos Libres led a caravan to Mexico to bring light to the issue of the land grant struggles in the Southwest. The purpose of the caravan was to gain support from the Mexican government for their cause before presenting it to the United Nations. According to Tijerina, he at no time intended to bring up the question of money compensation for violated Texas land grant rights. While in Mexico Tijerina proposed to meet with outgoing President Luis Echeverria. However, Tijerinas meeting was suddenly preempted by the abrupt arrival of U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. During the course of the discussion the question of paying off the Texas land grant heir was brought up. The Alianza and Reis Lopez Tijerina were singled out by the Mexican government as the most credible agency of the U.S. land grant struggles which would be able to administer the program of compensation. On February 26, 1977, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Tijerina held a meeting with the Texas land grant heirs. The purpose was to present to the Texas land grant heirs the proposal which the Mexican government had raised during the discussions with Tijerina. I* seems that the Mexican government, after losing the Mexican American War was indebted to the United States in the sum of 440 million dollars for land violations against U.S. citizens. The United States was only indebted to the Mexican government in the sum of 400 million dollars for land violations. This left a balance of 40 million dollars which the Mexican government has owed to Texas land grant heirs whose rights were violated for decades. The assumption that Tijerina was representative of the land grant struggles in the U.S. was undermined by those attending the meeting. Of the 426 affected Texas land grant claims to be compensated only 10 claims were represented.
People at the meeting raised the issue of not voting on the proposed compensation because of the fact that there was not adequate representation. Tijerina would not allow the meeting to adjourn without some kind of vote; he stated that if no vote were taken, his credibility and that of the Alianzas in the eyes of the Mexican government might be affected to the point of jeopardizing the proposal. In a compromise vote the assembled heirs voted to accept the Mexican governments offer subject to change upon a larger assembly of Texas heirs voting on the same proposal on April 16, 1977, in San Antonio, Texas. Tijerina is expected to try to set himself up as a leader of the people who are struggling for the land in the Southwest. The Mexican governments proposal to pay off the land grant violations in Texas is an attempt by both the U.S. and Mexican government to suppress the land grant struggles and to co-opt revolutionary activism for the land by reducing it to a question of money. Tijerina did not allow any opposition to this proposal to be put forthvat the meeting, saying that the vote would not affect other land struggles such as those occuring in Chihli, New Mexico, because this vote had no legal bearing on those struggles. The bearing which the vote has on these struggles is that it in essence tells the people that the correct thing to do around the issue of the land is to be willing to sell out ones rights to the land; it tells the people that the land belongs to anyone who has legal title to it and that it doesnt belong to the people who work the land. People at the meeting tried to raise that the Mexican governments sudden interest in paying off a debt which has existed for decades had to be questioned. It should be understood that it is inconsistent of the Mexican government to want to make amends to people struggling for the land here in the United States when they have no interest in alleviating the miserable conditions of the landless campesinos in their own country. Surely it is not a humanitarian concern for U.S. land grant heirs which prompts the Mexican government to make amends. Rather, we think that the proximity of the Mexican land struggles in northern Mexico and the land grant struggles in the southwestern United States (Texas, New Mexico, southern Colordao) make it imperative that the two governments try to separate the struggles by buying off one section with an offer to make money compensation. The proposed compensation is an attempt to divert the masses away from recognizing the common enemy of both the Mexican and Chicano people, U.S. imperialism, whose tentacles stretch deep into Mexico. The people struggling for the land in such areas as Chilili, New Mexico, have assumed a truly revolutionary position on the question of the land. The people there have shown a willingness to take up a struggle for the land which does not seek money for the people but rather seeks communal sharing of the land by those whose sweat and toil produces the riches from the land. The people in Chilili, and not Reis Lopez Tijerina, are an example of a correct method to gain land back for Chicanos.