Thomas Trujillo, has been named assistant dean of the CU School of Law. Trujillo is the first Chicano to be named to an administrative position in the law schools history. Trujillos responsibilities include overseeing financial aid for all students entering law school and funds for scholarships and loans. He will also serve as Director of the Student Academic Assistance Program, including the Chicano Law Students. Asked if he thought it was a disadvantage that he does not have a law degree, Trujillo said, since I am not a member of the faculty or a professor, it gives me a unique insight into the law school." Since Trujillo's position is Assistant Dean of the law school, he believes he will be in a position to influence policy directly affecting the minorities in the law school. He would also like to see more minority students in the law school and hopes to organize a recruitment effort which will admit more minorities. Trujillo believes that, since he is a Chicano, minority law students will see the administration as more accessible and be able to go to him with any problems they might have. Trujillo sees his recent appointment as a milestone for Chicanos on this campus and elsewhere. According to Tujillo, it may be only a small step but it demonstrates that however slow the process may be, Chicanos are progressing, and will continue to progress.
Trujillo has been with the University since 1970 as a guidance conselor for U*ASEOP. He was also coordinator of MAPs counseling and tutorial component and then in 1972 was named assistant director of admissions in the CU Office of Admissions and Records. Trujillo also served eight years as a Roman Catholic priest. He received a bachelors degree from St. Benedicts College and did graduate work at the University of Notre Dame, the Conception School of Theology, the Holy Cross Abbey School of Theology, Western State College and Fordham University. Presently, Trujillo is chairman and co-founder of the Colorado Educational Services for Minorities Association, chairman of the Equal Education Opportunity Committee of the Colorado-Wyoming Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, and chairman of the Minority Admissions Committee of the Colorado Council on High Sc-hool-College relations. Tom Trujillo, newly appointed Assistant Dean of the CU Law School