Chicanos must enter political arenaAt one time it was not surprising to find that Chicanos in the United States were a political non-entity. Though many thousands are citizens by birth or naturalization, they keep clear of political obligations and therefore do not take advantage of political opportunities. There are counties in the Southwest where the Chicanos could swing the results of an election if they registered and voted. But too often they do not. This in turn means that state and federal legislation rarely takes them into account. An analysis of the Latino vote in last November¡¯s election provides a mixed message: While Latinos played a key role in the election of President Jimmy Carter, they came nowhere near measuring up to their potential. Statistically, according to the Southwest Journal, 81 percent of the latinos who voted chose Jimmy Carter giving him the margin of victory in two key states, Texas and Ohio. Although approximately 2 million latinos voted, their vote was substantially lower than that of the nation as a whole. For every two latinos who voted, three potential latino voters stayed home. If all the Chicanos in the southwest of voting age were to vote, their political voice would substantially increase, the problem of hundreds of thousands of Chicanos is that they are not registered to vote. A bill now before congress would provide federal funds to states for voter outreach programs. The provision would encourage the programs by funding them with 20 cents for each person voting in a given election. This type of legislation is very advantageous to Latinos as their economic situation and education are not on par with that of the Anglo. And since political candidates feel they get limited returns, they do not invest much time wooing Latinos who will not vote. The voter outreach provision is part of a bill that would require states to allow voters to register at the polls for federal elections. This type of program in Colorado would help to register more of the approximately 135,000 eligible Latino voters. Only 81,000 or 60% of the latinos registered for the last presidential election, of these 60,000 latino votes were cast. Some people may believe that having a goal of creating a new political party is futile because they may feel that Latinos are not concentrated in large enough numbers to constitute the majority of the potential or the registered voters. The truth of the matter is that within a decade¡¯s time, latinos will be the largest minority in the U.S. With the formation of the La Raza Unida party Chicanos have brought their self determination to a higher level. This type of mass movement and political organizations for Chicanos in the barrios must be formed. Organizations other than PASSO or LULAC which seem to be middle-class Chicano orientated (vote getters for the Democratic Party). The organizational effort for this to be accomplished must be ingenious and prolonged, but unless Chicanos act to revitalize the barrio, the most immediate resource we have for a land base internally and soon, the more difficult it will be to enkindle the sense of peoplehood and protect the political advances we may achieve. If visions are to go beyond mere talk, Chicanos must awaken to the reality that short of total revolution, and collapse of the system, which does not seem imminent, the burden of entering the political arena rests on their shoulders. No complete alternative is apparent. Aloofness from action means passive compliance to political decisions and implementation by others.