Strike continues Coors boycott hurts salesThe strike by 600 brewery workers at the Adolf Coors Company of Golden, Colorado is entering it¡¯s fourth month with negotiations at a standstill. The Coors company says the strike has had an effect on sales and that unpasteurized beer has had to be dumped, while Coors distributors in San Francisco report sales are off by 50 per cent.The major issues which caused local 366 to strike revolves around Coors¡¯ insisting on contract language which would destroy workers¡¯ dignity. Coors uses lie dectector (polygraph) tests on it¡¯s employees and raises personal questions such as: political affiliation; sexual habits, practices and preferences; questions relating to life style past and present and numerous other questions totally unrelated to the job. Coors¡¯ private police force can apply search and seizure practices against anyone on company property including but not limited to the search of lockers, personal clothing, lunch boxes, automobiles or any other personal effects. Refusal to submit to such a search results in an immediate discharge. Coors can also impose a physical examination on any employee at any time by Coors employed doctors. In addition Coors insists on the right to discharge if they feel that the employee¡¯s attitude is uncooperative. The National Labor Relations Board has held hearings on Coors for committing unfair labor practices against it¡¯s employees and a decision is expected in October. Coors is the fifth largest beer company in the United States, yet is only sold in 17 western states. It is also one of the state¡¯s biggest employers, operating packing and porcelain plants as well as the brewery. Of the original 1500 strikers, 600 remain out with $25 a week strike pay. However, many other AFLCIO unions have made weekly donations. The Steelworkers and the United Farm Workers have also supported the strike. At a packed union meeting June 29, the strikers voted overwhelmingly not to return to work. Joe Coors, who became president of the company after the strike began has stated the consumer boycott has had a minimal effect on sales. A union spokesman in California stated Coors sells 40-46 per cent of it¡¯s beer in that state, however sales in San Francisco are off 50 per cent while Budweiser sales are up 117 per cent. Because Coors beer is not pasteurized, it must be kept at a constant 32 degrees. It has a shelf life of only three weeks after which it goes stale and could cause headaches and stomach trouble. If the beer is not sold quickly then it must be shipped back. In places where sales have slowed Coors has taken to cutting prices in an attempt to move the beer. According to a union spokesman in Colorado the stale beer is hauled from the Golden brewery to company owned land near Longmont to be dumped. Joe Coors believes the union has cut consumption with its campaign of telling people Coors isn¡¯t pasteurized. He claims the union¡¯s attempt to discredit his product may force an advertising campaign to answer the non-pasteurization charges. Minorities, especially Chicanos, have boycotted Coors for years because of the company¡¯s discriminatory hiring practices. Many believe if in the past the union had made this issue it¡¯s own, instead of ignoring it, the possibility of a greater alliance between the union and the Chicano community would exist today.