 UMAS vanishingOver the past years the personality of the U.M.A.S. student organization has changed drasticly. This can be attributed to a few factcrs. Of prime importance is the backgrounds of the students now coming to the University of Colorado as in comparison to past students. In the formidable years when U.M.A.S. was struggling to achieve the goals the students at that time set forth for themselves, the students that came here were from the barrios ef Denver, Pueblo and the rural farming communities of the San Luis Valley. These type of people knew what it was like to struggle, and through dedication, hard work and even death, they fought for programs and organizations that would benefit all students. Their efforts helped Chicanos solve problems that were previously answered by simply dropping out of school. As the programs developed, the student populace of U.M.A.S. increased. As for the early revolutionaries that fought for progressive change at the University, many didn¡¯t graduate due to being ousted by college officials for their actions, or because the time spent fighting for the needs of the students didn¡¯t allow any study time, resulting in poor grades and eventual withdrawal. With each passing year the strong personalities that U.M.A.S. was born with slowly dissappeared. Specificincidents also sent potential leaders to the grave or into hiding for fear of their lives. Long term jail sentences also contributed to the decline of U.M.A.S. as a potential campus organization power in the United States. A new wave of students began arriving at the campus, but with a different set of ideas which were in sharp contrast with the previous students who struggled so that these ntw students might have an opportunity to attend the University. Students now didn¡¯t put anything into U.M.A.S. [organizations, General assemblies, board meetings], only take out [E.O.P. courses, Admission and financial aid]. Students who in the birth of U.M.A.S. called their homes ¡°the Westside, Northside of Denver, Brighton, Adams City, the Westside, lower Eastside of Pueblo¡±, Antonito, Del Norte, Alamosa and Monte Vista today refer to suburbia as their homes, Westminster, Aurora, Thorton, Lakewood, Colorado Springs and others. To say that to go back recruiting in the barrios and valley will bring back power to U.M.A.S. is not assured. Perhaps some of the older students are waiting...for what? I don¡¯t know? Maybe a leader to instill the old spirit again. But the answer must be found soon or someday people will refpr to U.M.A.S. as, ¡°oh, yeah, wasn¡¯t that some kind or other type of minority program here in the late sixties or early seventies?¡±