Two news reports presented on KMGH, Channel Seven concerning Center, Colorado recently looked into the situation of federal money which has been granted to Center, Colorado. The money, it seems, has allegedly been making the people of Center rich. A recent El Diario visit to Center found this to be false. Center has been receiving government aid which has been flowing into the poorer sections of the community. This money, which has been used constructively, has been under fire by the news media. Center has been receiving federal money to restore rundown homes. All of the houses under restoration are owned by poor working families who make most of their income during the short summer months when they work in the fields. The homes are rundown and in desperate need of repairs. One organization has helped families reroof, rewire, and put new or better plumbing in their homes. A visit to Center found houses with outside toilet facilities, no plumbing within the houses and wiring approximately fifty years old. This is not uncommon in Center for many of the houses are in this condition. The work currently being done on these homes has been substantial and necessary. After the renovation crew has finished their work, the homeowner needs only to provide for paints and any labor which was left undone due to the shortage of funds. Many times the crews will come in and do extra work without pay. The people on these crews are not concerned so much with the money they make but rather on the help they can give to their neighbors. The monies which have entered the community amount to more than $150,000. All records of this money have been recorded and are open to the public. There appeared to be no mismanagement of funds. The persons in charge of the funds are watched closely by the director of the program who oversees and regulates where the money is spent. A board of community members from different sectors of the community oversee both the director and the persons in charge of the funds. In seeing the work being done in the community and the conditions of the community itself, the money for renovation is a necessity.
The families which have received the aid could never have afforded it through any other means. For many the funds came too late. Looking around the community of Center we found many abandoned houses. The aid does not necessarily mean that someone will have a nice home and then sell it. To insure that someone will not sell their home, a small system has been implemented. If the
home is sold within five years, a certain percentage will - have to be paid back to the program. It all depends on the amount of time that has passed since the renovation of the home. All work past and present is subject to taxation. The families receiving aid are not burdening taxpayers since they now must pay higher taxes. The value of their homes has risen sharply which has meant an increase in property taxes.
When asked which they preferred fixing, rundown adobe homes or making new thin walled apartment complexes, the local people were more in favor of the first. The remodeled houses have better insulation within the walls than the newer apartment complexes. The construction of the older homes benefits the area residents because they are cheaper to renovate and last longer.