by Robert Garcia
The Texas Farm Workers Union has begun work seeking support for a Bill to the Texas legislature that would guarantee the right of agricultural workers to form unions and strike in at state. The minimum wage for farm workers in Texas is 51.25 an hour. A salary such as this forces all family members to work, many times at the expense of the children attaining an education. Dangerous farm machinery and pesticides also contribute to make agriculture the third most hazardous industry in the United States. The accident rate is three times the national average, and the farm worker is not provided with any compensation. The Social Security Act of 1935 does not require employers to pay cash payment to farm workers. They work without any protections or benefits until they retire, but seldom reach retirement, farm workers rarely live past 48. In south Texas lies the Rio Grande Valley, a rich agricultural area. In 1968 the United Farm Union of America (UFW) sent its then secre-tary-treasurer, Antonio Orendain, from California to begin organizing efforts there. Problems arose with violence between workers and Texas Rangers. Also there were accustions that Mexican workers who crossed the border were the cause of low wages and high unemployment in the United States. Unfavorable attitudes began to develop toward farm workers. In 1975 a melon strike resulted in the wounding of 11 workers by a grower. UFW organizers felt unprepared for the melon strike and unhappy over the severe press coverage. This resulted in ill feelings and contrasting opinions between Texas organizeres and the UFW officials. The UFW then withdrew their backing of the Texas Farm workers. Orendain continued organising in Texas after he resigned his UFW post. He and otheres founded the Texas Farm Workers Union (TFWU). Coflicts with the UFW continued when Cesar Chavez agreed to report undocumented workers. Funds in the beginning were made available through money raisers and the UFW, but now without this support the struggle became more difficult. Without money and pressure by such factions as the Ke Klux Klan, Texas Rangers, local posses and an unfavorable press provide huge roadblocks. Nineteen states, all in the south or southwest, contain a Right to Work Law. But unfortunately this law makes striking illegal and strike breakers cannot be prevented from crossing picket lines.
Lack of funds resulted in the TFWU's affiliation with La Raza Unida. The only drawback is a union cant win support in Texas with Chicano issues. What the TFWU needs is more national recognition, like the coverage the UFW received a few years ago. The ideas of many that the TFWU is in opposition to the UFW also hampers things. The TFWU obtained 500,000 signatures to petition for a law similar to Proposition 14. Proposition 14 would have guaranteed California farm workers secret ballot elections overseen and funded by the state, but is was defeated in the November 2 general election. Two state representatives, Paul Moreno of El Paso and Gonzalo Barrientos of Austin, have promised that they would introduce the bell in the Texas legislature. The TFWU is still awaiting this introduction. Recently TFWU organizers were attacked by a small group of people claiming to be working in the name of the National Farmworkers Service Center, a branch of the UFW. The group, led by A.C.L.U. lawyer Jim Harrington and his wife, recently participated in the forcible takeover of the TFWU office. Orendain and other staff member; were thrown out of their offices in a vigilante-type takeover. The group had failed in their eviction notice on Orendain before the takeover with a court ruling saying Orendain had every legal right to remain in the office building he shared with Harrington. Legal action against the Harringtons is pending.