The impact of a 900 mile pipeline, which will divert water from the San Luis Valley in order to move pulverized coal from Walsenburg, Colo., to Angelton, Texas is being protested by water interest groups from throughout the San Luis Valley. The groups cover a diverse amount of organizations and interests. According to the Valley Courier of Alamosa, Colorado, 21 formal protests representing 42 varied groups have formally filed petitions protesting the construction of the pipeline. Among the groups are Costilla County, Fred Holmes Junior of San Acacio, Colorado, Rio Grande Water Conservation District, Alamosa, Rio Grande Water Users Association, Costilla County Conservancy District, Conejos Water Conservancy District, and the City of Monte Vista. But while the San Luis Valley residents are opposed to the taking of water, the residents of Walsenburg find the slurry line an opportunity to revitalize a once booming coal town. The slurry pipeline which will transport a mixture of coal and water to Texas is planned to carry up to 15 million tons of coal annually. The coal will be mined from Colorado, New Mexico and Utah. The main ingredient in this slurry line is the acquisition of 15,000 acre feet of water per year from the San Luis Valley. The backers of this billion dollar project are the Houston Natural Gas Corporation and Rio Grande Industries. The slurry line, which will run to Angelton, Texas on the Gulf of Mexico, will transport the mixture of coal water at a rate of 3.5 miles per hour. When it arrives in Texas it will go through a process of dewatering which will be done by centrifuge or vacuum filters and heat if necessary. In order for the slurry to transport, it has to be on a one to one ratio of water and coal. An application filed by David Harrison of the Ray Moses law firm of Boulder, Colo, in December 76, asks that the pipe line company be granted permits to pump 2,000 gallons of water per minute from seven different wells they plan to drill. The water then will be piped over the 14,000 foot Sangre de Cristo Mountain range to Walsenburg. The construction of this slurry line could not have come at a more difficult time, since Colorado as well as the entire South West is experiencing the worst drought in decades. The backers of the line say that the water they plan to drill is not competitive to agricultural or urban use. Water rights and laws are very complicated in Colorado and water usage, especially in this case, is a very touchy subject. Prior to acquiring water rights, the coal developers purchased 960 acres of land in Costilla County where they plan to make their wells. Information gathered by Harlan Erker of Zorich - Erker engineering of Denver states that the application for water is not hydraulically connected with the flow of Costilla Creek, Culebra Creek or the Rio Grande River in Colorado nor to any appropriation of ground water in Colorado. The slurry line will definitely have an impact on San Luis Valley water. The opponents to the slurry line state that the water is indeed connected to the Costilla and Culebra Creek and the Rio Grande River. As a result it will be detrimental to other water rights and be in violation of the Rio Grande River Compact of 1939, which requires a certain amount of water be delivered to down stream users. Carlos Lucero, attorney for the Trinchera Water Conservancy District said There is no unappropriated water at the place where the applicants seek to pump water. Trade which has been proposed by the slurry company states in its water rights for the use of Colorado water it will be willing to trade Mesita water which is described as good water for farming and urban use for mineral water which is contained in the Closed Basin which is ideal for industrial use. Both are located in Costilla county. The State and others protesting the application say the water and the Closed Basin cannot be traded since a federal project designed to augment the water of the Rio Grande for the benefit of the people in Colorado. The matter now sits in Alamosas water court to referee Richard E. Conour who will determine who is right and who is wrong. The House Interior Committees subcommittee on mines, mining, Indian affairs and public lands voted 13 to 12 to delay further action on pipe line proposals until next January. Among those supporting the postponement were Representative Jim Johnson, R-Colo., and Teno Roncalio, D-Wyo., who described the outcome as a signal to the administration to show more consideration for the Wests water needs. A bill sponsored by representative Bob Eckhart (Democrat-Texas), the proposal before the House Interior Committee would grant coal slurry pipe line companies the right of eminent domain. Carter has endorsed the approach as a practical way of transporting coal from the west to the east. Railroads which traditionally have carried coal between the two regions, are opposed to the Eckhart Bill, contending it could undermine them financially.