HEW investigation of Denver Opportunity cont.Denver Opportunity (D. 0.), the local anti-poverty agency, is now the subject of an investigation by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare for a number of charges of mismanagement and possible criminal wrongdoings. One of the programs under investigation is La Gente, which is a non-profit organization and is an offshoot of one of Denver Opportunity¡¯s action centers. La Gente, which was organized four years ago by D.O. director Dan Trujillo to develop housing, is in the middle of an alleged kick-back scheme under deputy director of Denver Opportunity Benito Sandoval. This came about when Janette Alexander and Lori Mirza were starting an insulation company and needed a crew to do the work. The crew was sent to them by Sandoval, whom the two met through Janis Careglier, a woman who worked for a concrete company that had offices in the same complex where they worked. Sandoval allegedly told them he could get the contracts for the jobs, but not without getting something in return. Ms. Alexander said when she found the contract with D.O. involved federal money and that Sandoval was talking about a kick-back, she didn¡¯t want anything to do with it. When the investigation by HEW first came about, two of its administrators, Executive Director Daniel Trujillo and Board Chairman Dave Valdez¡¯ activities were being looked into. Head Start officials had charged that under the administration of Trujillo, Denver Opportunity has hampered the operation of 40 centers that serve 1,600 children. They accused D.O. mismanagement, improperly trying to take over programs, and having lost the trust of the community. The dispute which has been going since December is over administration, particularly the control of the hiring and budget of some Head Start centers, and the degree to which all of them should answer to the Denver Opportunity central office. Denver Opportunity has refused to allow public examination of its financial records, and now some of its board members are complaining that they, too, have been kept in the dark about contracts awarded by D.O. and about problems in a major part of the anti-poverty effort, Head Start. One contract which some board members are not clear about was awarded to Louis Dodds, who is the head of a construction company. Also, it was alleged that he got the contract because of his friendship with board chairman Valdez. Questions were also raised about Herb Mazzola, who was hired by the contract and who is a close associate of Trujillo and a former executive of both D.O. and La Gente. When he resigned as director for program development of Denver Opportunity, it was alleged that he was forced to resign because of pressure from board members and other employees unhappy with his performance. The Community Services Administration evaluated D.O. this year and reported that Board chairman Dave Valdez and member Robert Gonzalez aren¡¯t qualified to serve on the board. Because his residence listed by D.O. records is the area served by the action center, Morris Lewis, regional chief of community for CSA, said that Valdez must either move to the area or resign. Gonzalez, who is listed as a resident of Golden, also is not eligible to sit on the board because of residence. Gonzalez¡¯ name also came out because he works with Prudential Insurance, from whom D.O.purchased hospital and dental insurance for its employees. Gonzalez said lie was not involved in the sale and that the insurance contract was awarded in competition with several other firms and the selection was based on the decision of the employees. Valdez appeared before a meeting between Mayor Bill McNichols and the Denver City Council to defend La Gente who Councilman Sal Carpio is criticizing. Carpio wants the city attorney to recover nine vacant lots sold to La Gente by the Denver Urban Renewal Agencies which are still vacant although La Gente promised to build homes on them within one year. Valdez blames this on red tape and unfair government regulations. Carpio Says he¡¯s worried because the Federal Government may withdraw its approval for financing the housing development Dec. 1 if the work isn¡¯t under way. The investigation by HEW is expected to run 30 to 60 days.