Courts interpet BakkeIn 1968-70, without special admissions, only two blacks and one Chicano were admitted to the UC Davis medical school. A special admissions program was initiated in 1970, and allotted 16 out of 100 available admissions slots to economically or educationally disadvantaged students of all races. Although 20 percent of its applicants were white, only minority students were admitted under the program. On these facts, the court framed the narrow issue: does a state program which gives preference to racial minorities to the detriment of the white majority violate the majority¡¯s constitutional right to equal protection of the laws? The court first held that the government would have to meet a heavy burden of proof to justify the use of ¡°suspect¡± racial classifications, under the strict scrutiny test which is routinely applied in race cases. The University had argued that the use of racial classifications to help minorities should be upheld if it can meet the more lenient ¡°rational basis¡± test, under which any reasonable justification may be accepted. The court then stated that, in order to meet this more rigorous standard, the University must show (a) that the purpose of the program¡¯s racial classification serves a ¡°compelling state interest,¡± and (b) that there are no other reasonable ways to achieve its goals by means which infringe less on the rights of the majority. The court assumed that two basic objectives of the program met the ¡°compelling state interest¡± test: integrating the medical school and the profession, and providing more doctors to serve minority communities where health needs are urgent. The more difficult issue was whether the University had shown that it could not achieve these legitimate goals by any means short of racial classifications. The University argued that the only way to admit minority students was to apply special consideration to them, because their grades and test scores are lower than those of white applicants. The court nonetheless held that the University had not proven that the use of race was necessary, because the court said the same result could be achieved by revising admissions criteria to de-emphasize quantitative scores. The court also suggested that the University institute aggressive programs to identify, recruit, and provide remedial schooling for disadvantaged students of all races, and increase the number of places available in the medical school. The court also found that the University hadn¡¯t shown that its other major objective more physicians toserve needy minority communities would be ¡°appreciably impaired¡± under the court¡¯s suggested alternatives. The University hadn¡¯t shown whether minority doctors actually are more willing and likely to serve in minority communities. And the court pointed to more reliable means of achieving this objective: academic and clinical courses directed to the medical needs of minorities, emphasis on training general practitioners, and admissions standards which look to an applicant¡¯s past service and future plans. Finally, the University cited Title VII cases which have upheld affirmative action programs in employment to justify the University¡¯s affirmative admissions policy. However, the court distinguished these cases on the grounds that preferences were allowed only because the particular employers had demonstrated a practice of discrimination in the past. Since the court had no evidence before it that the University had a history of racial discrimination in admissions, it refused to uphold a system which disadvantaged the majority. Amid briefs (Friends of the Court) from the NLG and the MexicanAmerican Legal Defense Fund contended that the University had relied on tests and grades which were both unreliable and de facto discriminatory. The court did not rule on this issue, as no evidence of it was in the record, but suggested that a racially discriminatory purpose as well as racially disproportionate impact must be shown to prove discrimination. Both the court and the University let down the interests of minorities: the University by not producing evidence to prove the need for special admissions programs, and the court by setting an impossible standard. If racial integration is a desirable goal, how can it possibly be achieved without using race as a criterion? The court implies that the same results can be achieved by redefining the admissions criteria. But in order to accomplish its avowed goal, any redefinition would have to use race as a covert standard. While it would be a step forward to de-emphasize standardized scores, the court¡¯s position fails to recognize the necessity of using racial classifications in order to remedy the effects of historical discrimination.