The enviromental hazards that face people every day are becoming more, numerous; walking down the street and inhaling car exhaust is but one example of the dangers that people have to face each day. But the hazards which are the most dangerous are those that cant be seen, the hidden dangers. The Food and Drug Administration estimates that more than 2100 natural and synthetic additives are used directly into food. This use of chemicals has doubled over the past twenty years, to more than one billion pounds yearly, or five pounds for every man, woman and child in this country. The effects these drugs have on people have only recently been explored and their over all harm is still unknown. The most known hazards that face people are the pesticides and other chemicals that are related to farmwork. Much of the food that we eat is grown by the use of many different types of chemical fertilizers, and the farmworker is exposed to these hazards from day to day. These hazards have faced farmworkers long before other parts of the country realized the danger involved in such work. Hazards related to the steel industry pose severe problems to both employees and the public. The steel industry claims that it would be both economically and technologically impossible to meet the goal of cleaning up their coke ovens by the 1983 goal set by the government. If the industry does clean up their facilities this could well mean the loss of tens of thousands of jobs as a result. Most industry owners have created many of these problems because of their unwillingness to invest money into anti-pollution devices. A U.S. News and World Report article summed up the position of many of the business people, businessmen complain that overzealous antipollution standards are a dangerous brake on the nations economic growth. The same article estimates the cost of cleaning up America to be $271 billion over the next ten years. The steel company in Pueblo employs, many Chicanos and the future of their jobs lies in the willingness of the company to meet the costs of cleaning up the environment as well as retaining their employees. Other hazards related to work according to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), include the possible affliction of Brown Lung, a disease caused by breathing cotton dust, is said to effect 13% of all textile workers. In addition to hazards of working conditions, people are facing the problem of finding clean water to drink, and safe food to eat. The beef contamination of Michigan cattle is one example of bad food. The case involved a substance which is known as PBB, a chemical which is now known to cause neurological disorders in humans. The substance was fed to the cattle and a congressional investigating committee in March found that most of the human population of the state has intolerable levels of PBB and PCB, a related substance.