When the KKK ruled ColoradoBy Pamela PatrickFrom: The Silver and Gold Record Published by the C.U. faculty.When George Norlin was president of the University during the 19205, he was affectionately known as the ¡°kindly professor of Greek.¡± It isn¡¯t surprising, then, that when Ku Klux Klansmen ruled Colorado, they pictured a University president who was mush instead of man. Perhaps they pictured the ¡°kindly professor¡± as a bookish sort who knew ind cared little about the world outside academia. And perhaps that¡¯s why they came to Norlin. First there are messengers from Colorado¡¯s Klan governor, and then Governor Clarence Moriey himself. Not content to be in control of the highest office in the state, both houses of the Legislature and virtually every important political post in Denver from mayor to chief of police, the Klan sought to extend its influence to the University of Colorado. Consequently, in 1924 Klan messengers warned Norlin that appropriations for the University would be cut unless the Klan lad a say in the course of instruction and unless it was given veto power over faculty appointments. Years later, in 1939, Norlin wrote of the Klan¡¯s pressure to Rep. J.S. Boggs. ¡°The Governor assured me that the University could have what it wanted in the way of appropriations provided the University would play the game with the Ku Klux Klan; that is, definitely provided the University would dismiss from its staff all Catholics and all Jews.¡± It may have come as a surprise to the Klan, but Norlin wasn¡¯t mush. Norlin, verbally at least, threw the Klan out of his office and off the campus. His reply to the Klan: ¡°I stated flatly to the Governor that if we had to pay such a price for the support-of the Legislature, we preferred to do without that support.¡± Norlin was true to the University and its standards of truth and learning. The Klan was equally vitrue to its word. The University got nothing from the state Legislature in 1924 and managed to survive solely on the percentage of the mill levy due the University according to state law. How did Colorado, bastion of western hospitality and independence, become a bastion of the Ku Klux Klan? How did Denver, Queen City of the West, become the Queen City of the Invisible Empire? It was written later that even, when the Klan movement in the rest of the United States was faltering, Colorado and Indiana remained strongholds of the group, with diehards still parading around in white sheets, burning crosses on lawns, at the state Capitol, and even atop famed Pikes Peak. Coloradoans hadn¡¯t even heard of the Ku Klux Klan when a man named Simmons, proud possessor of the title Imperial Wizard, came to Colorado on a Klan recruiting trip in 1921. His trip was a success, for after a private meeting one Sunday afternoon in a room at the Brown Palace Hotel, Colorado¡¯s first Klan klavern, or chapter, was formed and the Colorado was born. It may have been the beginning for Colorado but not for the Klan. The road back to the Klan Y beginning and to the root of how it could have ended up on the University¡¯s doorstep in Colorado is a much longer one. Ironically enough it was on Christmas Eve, a traditional lime of brotherhood and good will, in 1865 that the Klan was formed. It was a social club at first, formed by six Confederate veterans in Pulaski, Tenn., and it drew its name from the Greek word kuklos, meaning ¡°circle.¡± The group quickly became the white southern Democrats¡¯ primary instrument of resistance to ¡°uppity¡± Negroes, Northern carpetbaggers and Republican scalawags during Reconstruction. By 1869, the Klan, now dubbed the Invisible Empire, had spread throughout the South, providing a perfect vehicle for Southern resistance to Black equality and carpetbaggers. Under the convenient secrecy of the white sheet, lynchings and terrorism spread throughout the region. Realizing that a little ¡°harmless¡± venting of anger and frustration had gone too far. Grand Wizard Nathan Bedford Forrest tried in vain to disband the dangerous, violent group. It was out of his control, though, and the rampage continued until Congressional investigations and public opinion on the part of moderate Southerners forced the Klan into dormancy. The white sheets*may have been put away, but the feeling dial produced the Klan was merely dormant and far from dead. It took only a book and a movie around the turn of the century to revive the old feelings behind the Klan. The book was a novel by Thomas Dixon called ¡°The Clansman, A Historical Romance of the Ku Klux Klan.¡± which, needless to say, glorified the Klan and its fight against Federal power and Blacks. The movie did virtually the same thing. ¡°Birth of a Nation,¡± the epic film by D. W. Griffith, showed the Klan as the ¡°good guys¡± saving the civilized world from the newly freed slaves. ¡°Birth of 2 Nation¡± was making news around 1915, and it, was then that William Joseph Simmons, an ex-preacher and ladies¡¯ garter salesman from Alabama, decided the time was right for a Klan revival. The mood of the country was strongly patriotic and strongly suspicious of anything ¡°unAmerican,¡± including Catholics who revered the Pope in Rome, and Jews who obviously hailed from eastern Europe and so weren¡¯t ¡°true Americans.¡± Simmons held his first Klan meeting at Stone Mountain, near Atlanta, Ga. Fifteen people showed up, and there was he ubiquitous fiery cross, a Bible, an American flag, a sword and a canteen of ¡°holy water.¡± Things were slow for the Klan until T 920, when the country¡¯s isolationist feelings were running higher than ever after thousands of its young men had died on foreign soil during World War I. In 1920 Edward Young Clarke and his mistress,' Mrs. Elizabeth Tyler, became the Klan¡¯s primary recruiters. Apparently, they didn¡¯t do it for their health they received a cut from each $lO ¡°klectoken¡± or membership fee they collected. The two must have worked hard and the new Klan¡¯s emphasis in favor of patriotism and against ¡°un Americanism¡± caught on. By 1921 the Klan¡¯s membership had reached about 100,000 nationally. Clarke and Tyler didn¡¯t stay with the Klan long enough to reap the big profits. They were thrown, out after being discovered half-drunk and half-dressed together, which wasn¡¯t surprising considering the Klan¡¯s ban on liquor and fornication. However, the recruiting methods Clarke and Tyler developed stayed on and by 1924 national Klan membership was conservatively estimated at Tour million. Denver was fertile ground for the new Klan movement. It had long been a conservative stronghold, and antiCatholicism was popular in Denver for years before the Klan knew Colorado existed. Before the turn of the century Denver had 10,000 members in 25 chapters of the American Protective Association ¡ªa group formed to ¡°protect¡¯ Americans from Catholics. It was discovered later that many of the people who joined Colorado¡¯s Klan were sons and daughters of the members of the A.P. A. There were plenty of Catholics in Denver for the Klan or the A.P.A. to hate. In 1920, 35,000 of Denver¡¯s 256,000 citizens, were Catholics. That figure includes 20,000 U.S.-born Catholics and another 15,000 recent Italian immigrants who settled in Globeville and Denver¡¯s ¡°Little Italy.¡± In addition there were about 11,000 Jews. Imperial Wizard Dr. Hiram W. Evans, who by 1924 had ousted Simmons as head of the Klan, explained in a speech at a Klan rally in Texas why Jews were not acceptable Americans. He described them as ¡°another unblendable dement¡± and said, ¡°Were the melting pot to burn hundreds of years Jew and Gentile would each emerge as he is today, only the Gentile would have been affected by many other dements and the Jew would not.¡± Apparantly, Evans¡¯ point was that Jews would not become more ¡°American¡± in time. Instead, they would continue to be the ¡°rotten apples¡± that somehow spoiled the American barrel. The Klan¡¯s argument against ¡¯the Black was a little more specific. There were about 7,000 Blacks in Denver in 1920, and Evans said, ¡°They have not and they cannot attain the Anglo-Saxon level. Both biology and anthropology prove it, and the experience of centuries confirms the conclusion.¡± The Wizard explained further that, ¡°The low mentality of savage ancestors is inherent in the blood stream of the colored race in America. No new environment can more than superficially overcome this age-old hereditary handicap.¡± As for Catholics, the Imperial Wizard spoke for the Klan when he gave new meaning to a quote from Lincoln: ¡°No nation can long endure that permits a higher temporal allegiance than to its own government.¡± Evans maintained that Roman and Greek Catholics ¡°violate that principle,¡± He said, ¡°To them the presidency at Washington is subordinate to the priesthood at Rome. The parochial school alone is sufficient proof of a divided allegiance, a separatist instinct. . . ?The invisible empire told George Norlin to fire Jewish and Catholic faculty members. He refused, and the University survived 1924 with out a cent of appropriated state money.The Imperial Nlghthawk, a weekly magazine was Just one of the publications the KKK used to disemlnate its ideology