Proposition 13Another middle-class gainLast month Californians gave a landslide approval to a $7 billion property tax cut; Proposition 13. Opponents to the controversial amendment charged that it would curtail local government services and lead to thousands of public employee layoffs. So far they were right. One state committee estimated that 270,000 local government employees would soon be out of jobs. The Los Angeles City Personnel Department estimated that 62 percent of the workers slated to be cut would be minorities, according to The Militant newspaper. A Los Angeles Times-Channel 2 survey revealed that opposition to 13 ranked highest among Chicanos and Blacks. Probable candidate for President in 1980, Gov. Jerry Brown signed a $5 billion bill to reduce the burden of the tax slashing proposition 13. But remaining on the state proposed budget includes a hiring freeze and a recommended freeze on salaries for local government workers and welfare recipients.Howard Jarvis, the architect of the California tax rebellion called prop. 13 "the best thing that has ever happened to them (minorities).¡± In justifying cutbacks for summer classes in predominantly Black and Chicano school districts he stated, ¡°They have babysitting for nine months, I don¡¯t think they need it for three months more.¡± About two-thirds of the $7 billion tax cut is going to commercial property owners and landlords.Some less publicized ramifications of 13 are: Slower garbage pick-up, probable cuts in Medicaid to continue financing abortions for poor women, the release of some prisoners in detention centers, and excuses for discrimination by county and local officials . . . The list is endless. But if Proposition 13 is bad, why was it passed so overwhelmingly? Many of its supporters acted behind the flag of racism, aware that it would set minorities back again. Others wanted only to pay less taxes on their homes, unknowingly of the shift taxes would take something else. The people that benefit from 13 are indeed the rich property owners and corporations that despite tax loopholes anticipate a $5 billion annual windfall in tax savings. But the majority of voters were merely afraid of losing their homes and therefore acted blindly in favor of Proposition 13.