Documents suggest FBI frame-upNineteen pages of newly released FBI documents show that U.S. G-Men may have been involved in the 1974 frameup that forced Hector Marroqufn to flee to Mexico and seek political asylum in the United States. A member of the Socialist Workers Party and Young Socialist Alliance, Marroquin faces imprisonment, torture, and possible death at the hands of the Mexican police if the U.S. government has its way and he is forced to return back to Mexico. According to Marroqum¡¯s attorney Margaret Winter, ¡°These documents show that the FBI does the same kind of things in Mexico that it does here.¡± ¡°It spied on and victimized political activists whose only crime was wanting to change the oppressive conditions of society.¡± The documents, released under the Freedom of Information Act, were heavily censored by the FBI. Furthermore, they represent only a minute fraction of the files requested by Marroquin. ¡°Marroquin was clearly framed by the Mexican cops because of his outspoken participation in the Mexican student movement,¡± explained attorney Winter. ¡°What was the FBl¡¯s role in that frame-up?¡± An example of FBI involvement in Mexico happened in 1967. J. Edgar Hoover congratulated the G-men in Mexico City for their good work. He said he was ¡°pleased by the wave of night time machine gunnings to divide subversive leaders.¡± Torture and murder of activists in Mexico is still common today. More than 300 people have "disappeared¡± without a trace. Hundreds are languishing in jail. The few documents released to Marroqufn reveal that the FBI had a file on him as far back as November 4, 1968. This was one month after a murderous government attack on a peaceful demonstration attended by thousands in Tlatelolco Plaza in Mexico City. Hundreds of people were killed. ¡°1 was fifteen years old then, and in high school,¡± Marroquin explains. ¡°1 wasn¡¯t very political. But 1 remember there were a couple of people at my school who wanted to organize a march to protest the massacre in Tlatelolco. I became interested too, but the demonstration was a fizzle.¡± Nevertheless, Marroquin¡¯s interest was enough to set the FBI on his trail. A document dated January 21, 1974, is a letter about Marroquin written by the FBI chief in Mexico to the FBI chief in Washington, D.C. This document was written just four days after Marroquin was accused by the Mexican cops of being involved in the murder of a librarian on his campus. But just what the FBI agents in Mexico told Washington can¡¯t be gleaned from that letter every word has been crossed out by the FBI censor. The flurry of FBI correspondence at the time of the frame-up of Marroquin is certainly no coincidence. It suggests FBI complicity with the effort to send Marroquin to an early grave on trumped-up charges. / That¡¯s why the Hector Marroquin Defense Committee is launching a fight for the rest of the governments spy files on Marroquin and other FBI disruption activities in Mexico. The fact that the FBI persecuted activists in Mexico is a crime and a scandle,¡± says attorney Margaret Winter. ¡°Only by getting the FBI files complete and uncensored can we begin to get at the truth. Hector Marroquin will undertake a national speaking tour this fall to bring his case¡®s to the American people. Marroquin will be joined by Rosario Ibarra De Piedra, who has firsthand knowledge of the kidnappings and torture of political dissidents commonly carried out by the Mexican government. Her own son was kidnapped by the police several years ago, and has not been heard from since. The He"ctor Marroquin Defense Committee organized a successful national tour for both MarroquTh and Piedra last spring. ¡°This time around,¡± said defense committee coordinator Roger Rudenstein, ¡°we want to try to get the people who came to hear Marroquin last time to help us with publicizing his tour and working on defense activities.¡± Marroquin has won a great deal of support from the labor movement,¡± notes Rudenstein. This gives us an unparalleled opportunity to work with all unions all over the country.¡± Rudenstein said, ¡°There are good possibilities for involving Latino groups, women¡¯s groups, Black groups, and students in meetings for Hector.¡± The committee has received the backing of thousands of individuals and organizations for Marroqums request for asylum. the opening dates for Marroqums tour are: October 10-11 Albuquerque October 12-13 Phoenix October 15 Tucson October 16-18 a Boulder, Colo.