PANAMA Gen. Omar Torrijos ended his one-decade rule as president of this central American nation last month. His hand-picked successor ran unopposed, receiving 452 of the 505 votes possible from the National Assembly. Aristides Royo will begin a six-year term as president, however Torrijos chose to remain commander of the national guard. “The whole thing means nothing,” said one Western political observer. “Torrijos is not in the driver’s seat any longer. He’s in the back seat and Royo is the chauffeur.” GUATEMALA CITY Hundreds of workers here were arrested last month in an effort to break a strike by the country’s telephone workers. The strike and mass demonstrations erupted in protest of the doubling of bus fares from 5 cents to 10 cents. According to the Red Cross, police opened fire with bullets and tear gas on hundreds of striking government workers. GRAND JUNCTION, COLO. In October, U.S. immigration (La Migra) authorities arrested at least 100 undocumented workers. The workers were picking apples in Mesa and Delta counties. Robert Godshall, director of the Denver office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said the raid followed citizen complaints that the Mexican nationals were taking jobs from the area’s residents. The growers preferred to hire the undocumented workers because they receive less pay. LISBON The president of Portugal, Antonio Ramalho Eanes, summoned the country’s political parties together this week to announce the name of his new premier. Portugese intellectuals say Eanes is certain to designate a non-partisan figure to form the country’s 10th cabinet since the 1974 revolution that ended 50 years of autocratic rule. CHAMA, COLO. In the Valle de San Luis, people have protested the “systematic stealing of land by the government” for 130 years since the signing of the Treaty Guadalupe Hidalgo. Just recently, a conference was held in Chama, Colorado to discuss their current land problems. One of those problems is John T. Taylor, who came to the valley in 1960 and claimed to be “sole owner” of 77,000 acres of the mountain tract. Until Taylor’s arrival, the mountain land was used by Chicanos and Native Peoples for grazing, hunting, fishing, and access to wood and water. WASHINGTON The trial of IT&T officer, Robert Berrellez, began proceedings last month on charges of lying under oath to conceal the company’s efforts to influence Chile’s 1970 election. Even before the trial began for Berrellez, prosecutors withdrew some of their charges, to protect CIA secrets. In 1975 it was revealed that the CIA had spent 12 million dollars to block the election of Salvador Allende; however Allende won by popular vote. Later he was overthrown by the CIA/ITT backed Pinochet, who is presently the dictator of the South-American country. DENVER IMAGE, a latino group from here is filing suit against the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) of Denver, charging the commission with discrimination. Plaintiffs in the suit are Antonio Califa and Ginger Coronado who both applied for jobs with the EEOC, but were rejected. The main purpose of the EEOC is to fight employment discrimination. BRAZIL Sixty-year-old retired Gen. Joao Baptista Figueiredo was elected Brazil’s fifth military president in 14 years. The election that took place in October will give Figueiredo the office beginning in March. Figueiredo received 355 votes from the 589-member Electoral College. The outcome of the election came as no surprise because the retired general was handpicked by his predecessor Gen. Ernesto Geisel.  GUAM On October 23, Typhoon Rita sideswiped this small island country, and forced the U.S. Strategic Air Command to evacuate all its giant B-52 bombers. U.S. Navy aircraft were sent to the Philippines - another country that the U.S. has occupied for almost 80 years. There were no civilian fatalities reported.

MOUNT ANGEL, Ore. Colegio Cesar Chavez, a Chicano College in Oregon, has been struggling to stay open since 1973. The U.S. Department of housing and Urban Development (H.U.D.) has been trying to foreclose the mortgage on the institution for 5 years. but time and time again Chicanos have managed to fend off H.U.D. in court. But now the legal hassles are over and H.U.D. has written off the $1 million loss. Cesar Chavez was partly responsible for the college's victory because of his high level lobbying. LOS ANGELES Los Angeles Brown Beret, Carlos Montez will go to trial this month on charges of arson. According to the Justice for Carlos Montez Committee he is answering to trumped-up charges because he is a Chicano activist. The California Supreme Court is currently reexamining an appeal by Montez to open up police files on the state’s infiltration of the Chicano Movement and on the state’s surveillance and harassment of Montez. EL PASO - Chicano activist, Ramon Arroyos of El Paso, Texas was recently sentenced to prison for 2 to 3 years. Arroyos, who was a member of the Chicanos Unidos organization, had his probation revoked even though the charge of drunken driving was later dropped. According to the Unity newspaper, the presiding judge Sam Callan stated, “If this were a jury trial, you would walk away. But I cannot put myself in the position of telling the community the police are liars.” Apparently, Judge Callan felt that the El Paso police’s respectability held more water than justice for Montez. SAN ANTONIO - The Carter Administration is planning to build a ten-foot-high fence between Tijuana and San Diego and between Juarez and El Paso, Texas. The fence, sometimes called the “tortilla curtain” will have a concrete base to prevent tunneling Total cost of the fence is estimated at 53.5 million. Mexican workers trying to escape Mexico’s subpoverty wages and 60% unemployment now face this obstacle along with the brutality by “La Migra," which has long existed. PITTSBURG, California - Pittsburg Chamber of Commerce recently cancelled a dinner where William K. Coors was scheduled to speak. The cancellation was attributed to pressure from labor groups. A spokesman from Coors said that this is the first speaking engagement he has had to cancel because of such pressure. The Coors brewery in Golden CO has been on strike for about a year and a half. The union has also called for a boycott of Coors beer. However, Chicanos have been boycotting the beer since 1969 because of the brewery’s low percentage of minority workers.