RULING DEEMED AMBIGUOUS Quotas lose Bakke winsOn July 7, 1978 the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Allan Bakke. The controversial decision came after Bakke claimed that special admissions programs denied him equal protection of the law under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The supreme court made a split decision concerning Allan Bakkes contention that he was being discriminated against because he is white. The decision said that rigid quotas based solely on race were forbidden, or unconstitutional. But the decision also said that race might legitimately be an element in judging students for admission to universities. The nine Justices voted 5 to 4 that ¡°quotas¡±-setting aside a precise number of places for minorities in a university class-are unacceptable. Secondly, the Court voted, also by a 5 to 4 vote that race may be considered as one factor in a universities admissions policy. Thus, the Court approved the principle of affirmative action, which is designed to improve job and education opportunities for minorities and women. But the Court also awarded a victory to Allan Bakke, a 38 year old white engineer. Allan Bakke charged the University of California with reverse discrimination after he ws denied twice for admission into the medical school at Davis in 1973 and again in 1974. In the matter of Allen Bakke, the Supreme Court ordered U.C. Davis to admit him into medical School this fall. The University of California at Davis failed to show the justices that minorities have been discriminated against. The U.S. Supreme Court Justices split 5-4 in their decision-therefor automatically appealing the Bakke decision. Some minority leaders have joined in praising Bakke because, although the high courtdestroyed the Davis Admissions program it upheld the element of race as a factor in affirmative action. But, by relinquishing strict quotas, universities and the job market can legally discriminate against minorities. The Court has maintained that because an employer hires only whites does not mean that he intentionally discriminates. The victims of discrimination must prove they have been discriminated against. The key to the Bakke decision is ¡°quotas". Affirmative Action programs may still strive for goals and percentages without the use of rigid quotas. Race may be used as a factor bearing pluses or additional points. If an institution awards a minority one point out of a possible 100, then underrepresentation of minorities can incur as drastic as ever. Justice Lewis Powell casted the Court's deciding vote. In his opinion there were only four arguements that justify the use of racial classifications in the Davis Admissions system: (1) Reducing the shortage of minority doctors (2) countering the effects of discrimination emerged by society (3) increasing the numbers of doctors in areas that are underserved, and (4) achieving an ethnically diverse student body. He dismissed all but number 4. Not all the justices agreed with Powell however. Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun offered dissenting views to Bakke. Marshall cited that "bringing the Negro into the mainstream of American life should be a state interest in the highest order.¡± Justice Blackmun took a surprisingly strong stand against Bakke. Sounding much like a 1970's black liberal in his statement, he wrote; In order to get beyond racism, we must first take account of race. And in order to treat some persons equally, we must treat them differently.A *' El Diario photo by Norman Armendariz j Indians march across continent in protest of ¡°racist¡± house bills.