Interview

Awareness Developed Through Chicano Art

An increasing number of Chicano artists are beginning to dignify the Chicano/Mexicano culture through their art, an art that relates to and draws on the inner emotions of Chicanos who view it. One such artist whose paintings many times carry Chicano related themes is Robert Garcia. Currently residing in Boulder, Robert’s work is often influenced by the scenes of his birthplace, Antonito, a small rural farming community in el Valle de San Luis, and by the barrio where he was raised, Pueblo’s Westside. El Diario recently had a conversation with Robert where a little history of Chicano art and some of Robert’s viewpoints toward life were discussed. ‘‘One of the main purposes of Chicano art is to awaken a new social consciousness and develop a Chicano awareness. Chicano art has been around a long time, but at other periods it was known differently. Chicano art comes from its own traditions, but is not an imitation of Ancient Aztec art, Spanish architecture or modern Mexican mural painting. Chicano art incorporates these three eras with today’s growing Chicano awareness,” Robert related. Influenced today by struggles facing Chicanos, this art now expresses such issues as the “huelgas” or deportation. Artists

roles in the movement have become invaluable. “I believe as long as Chicanos make up more than their fair share of the population who are out of work, in prisons, in the army, not in colleges and other related problems, then there is a need for a Chicano movement to solve them.” “Just as there is a need for Chicano doctors, lawyers, businesspersons and other so-called “professionals,” artists too are necessary in contributing in any way toward the betterment of fellow Chicanos.” “Chicano doctors and lawyers could offer free services, business people could organize fundraisers and artists could utilize skills for effective advertising of needed information to their community. Every Chicano has something to offer the movement no matter how small it is.” “While society as a whole is facing many problems, a person must start somewhere to lend a helping hand, so no better place than with their own Raza.” “Many people may think they have it tough, but sometimes your problems seem small compared to other people’s. Everyone has to learn to get involved with something besides themselves, and take their time wasted senselessly and direct it toward something constructive.”

"One purpose of Chicano Art is to dignify a cultural link that has not been broken,” says artist Robert Garcia, whose painting (above) recaptures past indigenous civilizations.