Population PerspectivesAs Colorado reaches its full potential for growth, it is at the exclusivity of the native of the west who without the economic means is unable to compete. A prime example here in Boulder is the housing situation and the plan to limit growth here by limiting the number of housing permits to be issued in the future, that, is if you can afford to build one, another Aspen or Vail is in the making. At the same time the onslaught of the pilgrims that began with their first Thanksgiving, continues today with the swarm of out-of-state licensed vehicles, merely covered wagons in disguise. The beauty and wide-open spaces of the west is dealt with as real estate with a $ price on it and the easterner makes claim to the West once again. If you¡¯ll note that land once occupied by white society tends to lose its naturalness and takes on the characteristics of the well-manicured golf courses, parks, freeways and condominums. The message is subtle in certain social settings ¡°You¡¯re living beyond your means¡± of in the case of the "restoration¡± of Larimer St. and the erection of Auraria College in Denver was physically evident. The United States is a lazy, overindulgent, over-weight, frisbeethrowing, defecating machine who fails to see its relevance to the world picture and how the world views us. The education system teaches a belief in the ¡°Myth of America¡± and further educates through the use of stereotypes, which we attach to the rest of the world. Thus we continue to intrude as the ever-impending tourist with camera in one hand, and on the other, the ignorant attitude of white superiority. The ficticious borders imposed on countries like Mexico and Viet Nam are also barriers imposed upon our minds. They must be lifted so we might see the common link that unites all indigen people, our inheirted right to the earth. Sadly for many Chicanos the propaganda perpetualized in advertising the good life gains control of mind. The ¡°Mind Parasites¡± infiltrate the Chicano min and methodically does what is necessary to get that $30,000 piece of the pie. In the process we've lost many of our Chicanos to the system. This same destructive method of assimilation also brainwashes our youth into thinking that speaking their native tongue is uncool while they bedazzle their ¡°disco rags.¡± The point is that this excessive life-style can ot continue at the price of our indigenous people throughout the planet, (especially when soon there will not be enough resources to go around.) The student must re-examine his motives for getting an education. To become a robot-consuming existence or to be an active and responsible part of resisting this process. It requires that we see through the veil of lies we are constantly bombarded with; to think, to analyze, to question and to see things for how they really are and to make a committment, if even death. We must take a stance with our feet planted firmly on the ground and we will receive direction from the earth. The direction we must take will become clearer and our spirits rekindled by a true yearning for justice (long overdue), as we join our brothers in the Longest Walk and take the message of truth across the globe and reclaim the Mother Earth for her peoples.