In Elfreda, Arizona the Hanigan troop, George Hanigan and his two sons brutally attacked and tortured three Mexican farmworkers. On August 18, 1976 the wealthy cattlemen beat, threatened, shot and relentlessly abused Manuel Garcia, Bernabe Herrera and Eleazar Ruelas’. The farmworkers were shun into the desert by the rich cattlemen and forced to run naked while in constant agony from gun pellets striking their backs. Manuel Garcia had 125 shotgun pellets inflicted upon him. This is only a very conservative fraction of the abuse inflicted upon the three men. The Hanigans even attempted to hang Ruelas’ and threatened to castrate Herrera. Blatant racism and hate unfolded by the Hanigans is clearly depicted by the savage, inhumane actions and also by the derrogatory remarks such as “thieves” and “fucking Mexicans”. The Hanigans were indicted for their actions but authorities were slow to process legal proceedings. Only after pressure from Catholic bishops were the Hanigans finally brought to trial — thirteen months later.

As expected, the Hanigans were acquitted of all charges including 22 felony counts. After the trial, jurors stated their belief in the guilt of the three troopers but were threatened to reveal their beliefs because of the social status of the Hanigans. The Hanigan case is another portrayal of the neglect and double standards in this society. The wealthy are free to probe and to act unjustly while the poor are denied basic human rights, justice and equality. Groups have formed and organized around the Hanigan incident to bring justice for the unwarranted actions. The National Coalition on the Hanigan Case and The Cochise County Committee for Justice in the Hanigan Case are seeking federal prosecution and legal action against the Hanigans. Public support is imperative in order to combat the injustices of the three farmworkers by the Hanigan troop. Support letters to demand a new trial against the Hanigans can be sent to: Honorable Griffin Bell U.S. Attorney General Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Only by the support of the masses can double standards and savage racist actions be stopped!