Ethnic balances not met by DPSThe city's court-appointed school desegregation monitoring body has charged nine senior high schools for not complying with the courts required ethnic balances. The Community Education Council, in a report to U.S. District Judge Richard P. Matsch, said Valdez, Eagleton, Fairview, Gilpin, Mitchell and Monbeiio elementary schools have Anglo enrollments of less than 34 percent and are in noncompliance with court-required ethnic balance. Lake Junior High School and West High School are described in the report as "virtually unchanged from times previous to the court order¡ªsegregated: 69.4 percent minority.¡± Abraham Lincoln High School, which is more than 64 percent Anglo, also is described as being in noncompliance with the U.S. District Court order. Council chairman Dr. Francisco Rios said Wednesday the group's findings ¡°are disappointing, but not surprising. It¡¯s pretty much the same report as last year," he said. ¡°Last year, however, we were able only to report and do nothing. This year, we have been empowered to negotiate and, if necessary ask for a hearing, which gives us more leverage.¡±Rios and Denver School Superintendent Dr. Joseph Brzeinski met, Tuesday to discuss the monitoring panel¡¯s findings. In addition to the council¡¯s charges of non-compliance, the group also complained of a lack of comprehensive planning by school administrators, school overcrowding and future ethnic-balance problems anticipated at several Denver schools. The council also expressed concern over affirmative action policies of the school district. Rios said the council has reviewed data supplied by the district ¡°which evidences substantial non-compliance by the district in the employment of Hispano and black personnel.¡± The council also charged that in-service programs to prepare teachers to teach effectively in desegregated schools is ¡°uneven, and shows a lack of commitment, seriousness and sincerity.¡± Only three of the city¡¯s nine high schools are seen as following the intent of the original court-ordered in-service plan, Rios said. What is perceived as a disproportionate number of suspensions and expulsions of minority students also is noted in the report.