FLOC threatening boycott'The Farm Labor Organization Committee (FLOC) union representatives are threatening a nation-wide boycott of Campbell¡¯s soups and Libby products if Ohio farmers refuse to meet the union's demands. The estimated 16,000 migrant farm laborers in the Ohio, Indiana and southern Michigan region are presently earning only $.24 cents per hamper of tomatoes picked. FLOC is demanding a rate of 35* per hamper which is 33 lbs. Other union demands include: A work guarantee of 28 hours every 2 weeks. If it rains for two weeks the pickers shall be paid for 28 hours. (This is already a state law in Wisconsin). Baldemar Valesquez, FLOC organizer, said letters were mailed to canning firms like Heinz, Stokely-Van Camp, Del Monte and Campbells demanding that future contracts made with growers include provisions for assistance for health care, insurance benefits and an assured minimum wage. Churches and church agencies in the surrounding areas have given support to negotiating between FLOC and the growers. The department of Churches in Society said Church support for FLOC couldn¡¯t be otherwise. In retrospect, Valasquez said the 1969 strike against the growers prove that ¡°very limited¡± benefits were possible because of the relationship between the canneries and the growers. As of two months ago, Ray Santiago, FLOC Secretary-Treasurer said that FLOC would be ¡°reactivating its strike fund and approaching friends in labor and churches to increase the fund.¡± At that time FLOC had 15,000 dollars in the fund, according to Santiago. The following list includes the provisions that FLOC is demanding for the migrant laborers. Minimum wage of $3.25 per hour. Transportation to Texas, Florida or home residence. Rate of B*/mile plus 2* per worker passengers. A medical program. (There is a policy available that will cover 4 months for $196 per family). Custodian for each camp. His rate of pay will be whatever other workers are averaging in his location. In a letter to FLOC, Cesar E. Chavez said, ¡°We (UFW) are prepared to assist you and your people. . . SI SE PUEDE¡±. In a meeting conducted by FLOC, 16 growers out of the 440 invited attended the session. The farmers at the meeting generally agreed that growers would refuse to make pacts with FLOC this season. After the meeting farmers mentioned tha' it will not take much to make them do away with migrant labor in their operations. They discussed the use of mechanical picking equipment and the option of ¡°cultivating crops that do not require the use of human hands.¡± FLOC began the negotiating campaign this summer with a $89,000 grant from the U S. bishops¡¯ campaign for Human Development. Donations to the organization can be sent to: Farm Labor Organizing Committee 7141/4 S. ST. CLAIR STREET TOLEDO, OHIO 43609 (419)243-3456