True Class Of The TangoBy Manuel AcardiaThe origins of Tango are not clearh defined. Its rhythm reminds us of Spanish and Southern Italian music, dui Cuban and Meztizo influences can alsc be detected. Irregardless of what the musical origins of Tango are, one thing is clear-it is social environment in which it was born which characterized its significance. The Tango was not accepted by Argentinian society as music to dance to until the 1930¡¯5. Prior to then, Tango was considered vulgar and grothesque, proper only for the lower classes of society. Tango was indeed the cry of the poor, the music of the barrio, of the slums, ¡°la musica del arrabal.¡± It became the artistic expression of the ¡°city gaucho,¡± those forced to migrate to the big cities in search of work. This began to happen at the end of the nineteen century, when industrialization began to take place. Tango is Urban folklore. The impact that Tango had in the musical traditions of Argentina wnet beyond Argentina¡¯s borders to conquer the world. This was due to two factors: the intervention of show business magnates from Broadway during the late 20¡¯s and early 30¡¯s, and the Latin Lover myth, so identified with the personality of the TANGO star. It is no coincidence to find, when we reflect on the trends that fave the great TANGO stars of this period, their plastic identity, how the art ofTANGO became, for the Valentinos of those days, a must to roudup their image of irresistable seducers; for to be a film star without knowing how to tango, in those days, was merely impossible. This mystique shadowed the true class origins of Tango, altering also its meaning and its popular message, surrounding it with a romantic aura of glamour and illusion.But the words, the poetry in Tango lyrics, is far from illusion. Its fatalism in one of its crudest manifestations, where alcohol, night life, prostitution, and gigolos, were all used and became themes for a TANGO. Carlos Cardel, became a legend in Argentina for expressing better than anyone else, in his time, the mood of TANGO. H : compositions included ¡°Mariposa,¡¯ and ¡°Milonga Sentimental.¡± Carlos Cardel became a legendary tango star of Argentina and a national cultural institution due to his great talent but also due to his tragic death in a plane crash in 1935. Cardel was only 32 years old. By then he had already made several films, among them, ¡°The Limelights of Buenos Aires,¡± ¡°Tango Bar,¡± ¡°The Tango in Broadway,¡± ¡°Music of the Barrio,¡± and many more. Fame, fortune, and good looks launched Carlos Cardel¡¯s figure to many international forums, including Broadway. He composed and arranged tany of his songs, forming a duet with azzano until the day he died. ¡°Mariposa¡± was one of his songs. But fame and fortune also contibuted to adding to his legendary figure the nickname of the ¡°Valentino¡± of Argentina. At the same time, Tango was being tuned into mussak, as commercialism uprooted the music. The 1930¡¯s were significant for Tango performance because it was then when Tango was accepted as a dance.