Commentary

Do Americans Become Prey to Every Fad?

by Della Romero

As 1978 rushes pell mell into the science fiction reality of 1984, accelerated by roller skates, skate boards, increasing pollution, etc., it becomes vital for one to take stock of ones relation to the earth. In not questioning, we become prey to every fad that passes through without asking the validity and consequence of our actions. Given the framework of speed limits, traffic lights, rules and regulations, deadlines and living from apartment to highway to parking lot to buildings, to stadiums to classroom to theatre, and we find we are not consumed by this environment and our minds still emerge somewhat free from this giant human maze. As rats conditioned within a maze, we do not question our destiny, our role. As humans with a mind and conscience we can surpass those limitations and look beyond. As a result we can better comprehend our relationship and contribution to life. The powerful tool of the media and its manipulation most often does not give people a chance or a choice in what they view. This is evident in the vulnerability of a public who watches Charlies Angels and Starsky and Hutch and believes it to be an accurate representation of reality. This same impact of the media is being imposed on a conditioned public the world over. The victims may be Venezualans who get their first dose of mind persuasion via cheap transistor radios or a poor Mexican family who views the good life on his most prized possession (the T.V.) in his one room home. A trap is being laid as another potential market is realized. Speaking from a Chicano perspective he sees his evolution from the grass roots level to the Cosmopolitan Chicano. In the beginning stages he sought development in education to answer the needs of his people in the fields of sociology and political science. This trend further revealed the need for development in other areas such as psychology, business and the hard sciences. Today students are becoming conscious of the tremendous impact the media and the art of persuasion has on the mind and Chicanos have begun to make headway in

the field of communication. The Chicano through the media has the capacity to design his way of life to include all its cultural and political aspects. Chicanos have the potential to create in media messages more relevant and substantial to their needs. The Chicano, a product of El Quinto Sol, (the fifth generation) a Mestizo people is looked to for direction for leadership in all levels and situations such as those. The responsibility lies with the Chicano and other conscientious peoples who commit themselves to take an active role. It is a commitment to reverse this backward process that threatens to engulf one of the last remaining freedoms in the Americas. It is the freedom of the mind and the ability to criticize, analyze and question. It is the power of the will to say no to the destruction of humanity and the earth. The poison is as real as the carbon monoxide season that comes with winter and must be dealt with. To do so it is necessary to extricate ourselves from the mind parasites that constantly plague. To free ourselves from a comfortable, stagnant existence we need to reach a new level of awareness. An awareness that understands that the comfort we take for granted is at the price of murder and starvation of other humans, wildlife and the earth. To those who still hear, the Mother Earth's pains are audible, and to those who still see her signs are visible. If the soil of awareness is planted with the seeds of knowledge and love in the minds and hearts of our people the fruits, will be the action borne in each individual. That action will be evident when we commit ourselves to our part in saving the remaining indigenous peoples, our brothers, the four-leggeds, the wingeds and the earth. Once released from the strangling hold of this society, its mazes, and effects of the media, each individual has within him the power to first assert his role and secondly his ability to affect others by planting the seeds of awareness within their souls and minds. Lest you be led like a sheep to the slaughter, amidst the chaos speed of todays society, take time to ask, who am I following and where am I going? As Olga Talamante said, "love life enough to struggle for it."