C.U. Law School

Law Students Demand Groves’ Resignation

by Pat Salazar

Minority law students at the University of Colorado School of Law are asking Justice James Groves to resign from the C.U. Dean’s Search Committee, the Colorado Bar Examination Committee and the Colorado Supreme Court. This announcement came at a press conference on November 6, 1978 at the C.U. Law School. The demands of the minority law students were in response to a series of events, beginning with a Dean’s Search Committee meeting held at the law school on October 4, 1978. (The present dean is leaving this post at the end of the current school year.) At that meeting Justice Groves, a member of the committee, was questioned about his commitment to the Affirmative Action Program at the University of Colorado School of Law. His remarks indicated that he seriously questioned the competency of minorities in law school and in the legal profession. He stated that the law school is admitting less than qualified minority students and is failing in its responsibility to “bust them out” at this level, as well as certifying minority graduates to the bar who are incompetent to pass the bar exam. After the meeting, members of the Chicano Law Students (CLS) told Justice Groves that they would like to meet with him so he could clarify his statements, because minority students were angered and insulted by these statements. Justice Groves agreed to meet and CLS, along with the C.U. Black American Law Students Association (BALSA) and the C.U. Native American Law Students Association

(NALSA), organized a panel discussion which was held on October 24, 1978 at the C.U. law school. At this meeting, Justice Groves refused to respond to questions from the discussion leaders. He said, “I’m not here to express opinions and any statements that have been made or will be made as to what my position is, I won’t comment on. I neither affirm nor deny those things.” Despite the silence of Justice Groves, the panel expressed their concerns with regard to his statements of October 4th. With regard to the Dean’s

Search Committee, the panel stated that Justice Grove’s statements reflect an inability to act impartially as a member of that committee. The minority law students believe that his statements reflect an attitude which advances the interests of those white students who seek admittance to the law school and who would hold the seats of the minority students if it were not for the minority programs. It therefore follows that he does not believe affirmative action should exist at this law school and consequently, that minorities

are not entitled to minority representation in the courts of Colorado. The American Association of Law Schools has stated that the creation of opportunities to educate minorities in the legal profession is a compelling state interest, and the minority law students believe that it is only through minority representation that justice can best be effectuated. They stated that the entrance exams are inherently culturally biased and designed to perpetuate only admittance of Anglos. These tests are not indicative of qualification and

competence to complete a course of training in a professional school. The panel went on to state that the minority program at the law school is designed as a remedy for the lack of minority representation in the legal profession. However, the present administration does nothing to further this goal. This is evident by the high flunk out rate of minority law students at C.U. The problem is further substantiated by the fact that many minorities who flunk out of C.U. and are

admitted to other law schools, are able to graduate and become lawyers. Minority law students believe that the standard for competency at the law school is not indicative of competency and success as lawyers. Justice Berger of the U.S. Supreme Court said that fifty per cent of the attorneys in the U.S. are incompetent. Since the majority of these attorneys are white and were able to pass the standards set by law schools, it is apparent that something is wrong with the standard. Minorities have demonstrated their competency as attorneys on a practical basis. Clinical programs, such as Centro Legal, show that minority law students carry two to three times as many clients as regular Legal Aid students and

they also have a higher success rate in court. The panel expressed serious concern over these problems and said that they can only infer that there is inherent racism in the law school. With regard to the Colorado Bar Examination Committee the panel asked Justice Groves why he inquired into the minority passage rate on the bar. “Did you think minorities were inferior and did you seek to prove this?” Justice Groves maintained his silence and the panel went on to state that findings by the Advisory Committee of the Commission of Civil Rights point to a need to reconsider the bar exam as a measure of competency. It may have once been necessary but now, with all of the American Bar Association accredidation of law schools, it would make more sense to require law

school training as a measure of competency rather than the bar. Finally the panel said, “We are expected to live within a legal framework which we

have not helped construct. If minorities are to live within the rules of law they must enjoy equal representation in the legal system. If we do not create the system it cannot be expected that we will be afforded the protection of those laws. We cannot hope to be afforded due process, equal protection or any of those concepts which protect others besides ourselves. Minority representation assures us some degree of sensitivity.” In a letter to the C.U. minority law students following the “meeting” of October 24th, Justice Groves admitted that his statements were insensitive and “perhaps too blunt”, and he requested another meeting with four representatives of the group. At this meeting on November 1, 1978, Justice Groves told minority law student representatives that he

would address the issues brought up in the October 4th and October 24th meetings, only if they were submitted to him as written interrogatories which he would answer at his convenience. He refused to meet with the minority law students as a body and also refused to make a public statement to clarify or retract his statements of October 4th. As a result, the C.U. minority law students, with support from the Chicano Bar Association, the University of Denver Law School minority student organizations, and the National Black American Law Students Association, proceeded to demand Justice Grove’s resignation from the C.U. Dean’s Search Committee, the Colorado Bar Examination Committee, and the Colorado Supreme Court. To date Justice Groves has not responded to these demands.