Las Sadinistas Long history of U.S. intervention in NicaraguaTo understand the struggle of the Nicaraguan people, and specifically the uprising involving the Sandinistas. it is necessary to make a resume of Nicaraguan history and U.S. intervention. Nicaragua declared its independence from Spain in 1821, and for next feudecades fell into Britain¡¯s economicsphere. From this time and until 1871 the country was plagued with war between the conservatives and the liberals, both ruling class factions. Later, the United States challenged Britain's dominion for a cheap overland route from the Atlantic to the Pacific. A treaty settled the dispute between the whitemen in 1850, hesitating the competition for Latino soil. In 1856, the United States gave diplomatic recognition to William Walker, an expeditionist who declared himself ¡°President of the Nation.¡± Walker lasted about one year. He apparantly clashed with other governments and U.S./England railroad barons such as C. Vanderbilt who established the Nicaraguan Transit Company in 1851. For the next 30 years the Nicaraguans lived under the thumb of the conservative regimes, and in 1893 began the ¡°Liberal Reform¡± of Jose Zelaya. In 1910, after a U.S. supported conservative insurrection took place to oust Zelaya.an agreement was signed, making Nicaragua a financial and political ward of U.S. interests. Reasons of getting rid of Zelaya couldbe because he had begun negotiations with Japan to build a canal across Nicaraguan territory. Remember that the U.S. had signed the 1903 Panama Canal Treaty, 7 years prior to this date. ? The Conservatives again asked for : U.S. support in crushing the ? nationalist sentiment of Nicaragua in 1912. Twenty-seven hundred marines : sere sent to ¡°prevent the Conservatives ? and the Liberals from fighting and " causing social unrest.¡± But it was clearly an invasion to protect U.S. economic interests in Nicaragua. The Marines remained in Nicaragua until 1925. In 1927, the liberal leaders of Nicaragua signed a peace agreement with the U.S. with the provision that the U.S. would supervise the election. One liberal leader resisted; His name is Augusto Sandino who was committed to resisting U.S. presence in Nicaragua. This began the first antiguerilla war the United States had engaged in Latin-America.THE RESISTANCET7) U.S. IMPERIALISM The Sandinistas are not the creation of the 1970¡¯5, but a product of more than 40 years of resistance. When the U.S. finally agreed to leave Nicaragua, they established the National Guard and appointed Anastasio Somoza Garcia as dictator. The former employee of Rockefeller was the beginning of a marked dynasty that has lasted till this day. After the U.S. left, Augusto Sandino signed a truce with Somoza, believing that Nicaragua¡¯s freedom was in hand. This good faith led to Sandino's death at Somoza¡¯s orders. The man who fought the U.S. Imperialists was dead, but his aides carried on his struggles. That is what is known here at the Sandinistas. The Somoza¡¯s have boasted for years of American (U.S.) support. In more sporadic attempts at loosening Somoza¡¯s hold on Nicaragua opponents have been upended by U.S. trained and equipped national guard. Last summer General Somoza suffered a heart attack, igniting an even heavier opposition with student strikes and anti-government demonstrations in almost every city and town of Nicaragua. Last January, Pedro Chamorro Cardenal was assasinated in Managua. He was the owner of La Prensa and an outspoken critic of the Somoza regime. That spawned a strike that lasted two weeks. A second strike by the Broad Opposition Front began on Aug. 28 and is still in effect. Although Somoza said he would hold free elections in 1981, Nicaraguan opponents say it is a ¡°ruse to gain breathing time for the dynasty, limed so that the dictator¡¯s 26-year-old son, already a major in the national guard can get (irmly in the saddle and continue family rule.¡± (In consultation with Manuel Arcardia)? After the U.S. left, Augusto Sandino signed a truce with Somova, believing : that Nicaragua¡¯s freedom was in hand.