Global NewsPUERTO RICO A resolution was adopted by the Decolonization Committee reaffirming the call for self determination and independence for the people of Puerto Rico. The resolution establishes the Puerto Rican people to have all power over territory and over all actions involving the country. Any action concerning the status of the country must be approved by the Puerto Rican people. The resolution was also adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. The Puerto Rican people are hoping that at the next United Nations General Assembly session a full discussion of Puerto Rico¡¯s colonial status will take place.SOUTH AFRICA Approximately one year ago, Azanian freedom fighter Steve Biko was murdered while taken prisoner by the South African government. Marking the commemoration, this year friends, relatives and others demonstrated the inexcusable killing of Biko. The group of demonstrators was arrested and charged under an act called "Internal Security Act¡±. This act allows people to be jailed indefinitely without being charged with any crime and those jailed do not have the right to an attorney. GUATAMALA CITY Twenty-two year old Quich Indian Maria Ixcoy gave birth to sextuplets underneath a bus near Guatamala. The woman and her husband, Pascuel Andres Ixcoy were returning from a season cotton picking job on Guatamala¡¯s western coast when Maria Ixcoy¡¯s labor pains began. She was carried under the bus to give birth because it was the only shady spot in the area. Five boys and one girl are the couples first children and are reported in good condition. The Ixcoys gave Rosa Valdez, the midwife, their last $5.00 for helping with the delivery of the children. MINNEAPOLIS American Indian Movement (AIM) activist Vernon Bellecourt has been elected secretary-treasurer of the White Earth Indian Reservation in Minnesota. His opponents, who controlled the election machinery ordered a new election ¡°because of irregularities¡±. This time Bellecourt received even more votes than in the previous election. SANTA BARBARA, Calif. Native Americans are camped out at Point Conception in an effort to stop the construction of a liquified terminal on their sacred burial ground. The land, which is leased by the southern California Edison Company is apparently violating a verbal agreement with the Indians to dig trenches on the Chumash burial grounds. BRAZIL The dictator General Geisel is receiving numerous protests from Portugal, Spain, Venezuela, Peru, Bolivia and France condemning the detention of Hugo Bressano and Rita Strasberg. It is feared that the Brazilian authorities will deliver Bressano and Strasberg into the hands of the Argentine military regime. The pair was accused of violating the National Security Law which bans political parties that the military dictatorship deems ¡°subversive¡±. BOULDER, Colo. Despite poor prosecution Margie Covarrubias was recently charged with assault by the Boulder Court System. Covarrubias stated ¡°although I¡¯ve been tried by a jury, it was not a jury of my peers.¡± She was sentenced to two years of probation. Covarrubias now must face the University of Colorado Disiplinary Committee. The alleged frame-up of Covarrubias stemmed from the controversial passage of EC-4 concerning funding of student groups. With the check-off system instilled by EC-4, only 33% of CU¡¯s student body supported student groups. CANTON, Mass. Portugese workers at the Plymouth Rubber Company have moved to ¡°expose the discrimination of their union and the company.¡± The w'orkers were discontent with the union when at a meeting to elect delegates to an international convention, the union leaders refused to translate the vote into Portugese. Over half of the people at the meeting spoke Portugese as a first language. LOS ANGELES Filipinos attended a convention here that covered the issue affecting the lives of Filipino Americans and Filipino immigrants. Fourhundred people listened to the speakers that denounced the Bakkc decision, proposition 13 and the martial law declaration of President Marcos in the Philipines. CHILE Last month marked the fifth anniversary of Pinochet¡¯s takeover of the Chilean government. The U.S. backed right-winged coop killed the elected president Salvador Allende in a violent battle that filled the streets of Chile with blood and protests. Reports have linked the CIA and ITT to the takeover. LOS ANGELES, Calif. A Mexican Independence Day march was held by community members and revolutionary organizations throughout L.A. The diez y seis de Septiembre march emphasized that the struggle for basic rights still persists. Chants and cheers were voiced declaring solidarity for other third world peoples struggle for rights. DAVIS, Calif. ¡ªThis month Allen Bakke enrolled into the medical school at Davis. Bakke successfully disrupted the progress of minorities in the medical profession with his famed reverse-discrimination suit. Enrollment this year dropped considerably at Davis Med school possibly because of students' dissatisfaction with the supreme court ruling. (Figures were not readily available by presstime on minority/anglo disenrollment).