La Clinica Campesina in perilby Patty MartinsonA small rural health clinic, serving southeast Boulder County since November is in a funding crisis due to denial by regional HEW officials of a Rural Health Initiatives grant proposal. Clinica Campesina / Rural Health Clinic in Lafayette provides low-cost quality health care, with an emphasis on prevention, to ethnic minority, low income, elderly and till people of southeast Boulder County who desire its services. La Clinica had been funded for one year by Public Service Employment monies through Boulder County Manpower, providing the salaries for 5 staff members. Community people, who had long seen a need for more health services, got very involved with their clinic. Donated supplies, material and labor made it possible to open the clinic. Twenty-five people served on the Board of Directors, most of them users of the clinic¡¯s services. The grant proposal was denied, according to HEW because there are unmet medical needs not caused by lack of access ability and availability of health care services. Rather, the needs result of cultural language barriers that isolate the Mexican-American population from the service area. There was discussion by the committee that funding of this application would contribute further isolation of this population rather than bring them into the mainstream of the health care services in the area. Further, the committee found little evidence of coordination and cooperation with other health care projects: namely Boulder City County Health Department, Ft. Lupton Migrant Health in Frederick and the Colorado Department Program. La Clinica denied the validity of these statements and has documentation to the contrary. La Clinica has a nonhierarchical staff structure and operates as a team with equal salaries. Emphasis is placed on bilingual-bicultural sensitivity. Board and staff believe this concept based on La Familia tradition extends more appropriate services than what the traditional medical system offers. Staff, Board and community supporters made every effort to meet with HEW officials to correct the situation. Only after using the Freedom of Infromation Act were we even able to obtain a report on the Review Committees¡¯ decision. It was suggested by HEW that discretionary funds could be given to Plan de Salud del Valle in Ft. Lupton to provide some services to the area. Staff and Board of La Clinica attended a board meeting of Plan de Salud to discuss the possibilities of cooperation, however, that Board decided it could not enter into a grantee relationship with Clinica Campesina because of La Clinica's desire for community control and other t priorities for Plan de Salud. F Presently the clinic is awaiting word on other alternatives from HEW. The staff i will be cut back in August i when P.S.E. salaries run out. i There is a strong commitment ' to continue providing care from La Clinica, Chicana activist Candida ¡°Candy" Arroyo addreaaes the importance of mold, national unity to a crowd of over 150 Oiicanoo at Central Park in Boulder. (Left to right: Jaime Sandoval and Francisco Altamlrano.) El Diario photo by lmos Lucero