White worker filesreverse-discrimination suitThe case of Brian Weber vs. Kaiser Aluminum and United Steelworkers, is shaping up to be an even larger court battle than the Allan Bakke reverse-discrimination case. Brian Weber is claiming that he has been discriminated against because he has more seniority than Black workers. Weber bases his suit on Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which forbids discrimination on the basis of color. The case stems from an on-the-job training program organized and negotiated by the United Steelworkers in 1974 which covers all Kaiser Aluminum plants. The plan was created to place half of all trainee positions into skilled job areas. The goal is to have half of these positions filled by Blacks, women, and other minorities until they reach a proportion to the minority workers in the area of each plant. The plant where Brian Weber is employed, had one of the highest goals - 39 percent. At all plants the goal for women was 5 percent of the skilled jobs. Brian Weber sued to overthrow the plan. He claims it was ¡°reverse-discrimination. ¡± A federal district court and the Fifth Circuit of Appeals have ruled in Weber¡¯s favor. The courts held that Kaiser never discriminated against Blacks or women at Gramercy. Therefore, they said, the ¡°voluntary¡± affirmative-action plan was illegal. Employers can not be forced to make up for general "societal discrimination,¡± the court declared. No testimony was heard from union representatives or from Black or women workers at Kaiser. "Right now the only hope the Black workers have in the plant is the union,¡± Allen Henderson said.¡± And if Brian Weber wins this ¡°reverse discrimination¡± case, you might as well not have a union.¡± Henderson was one of more than a dozen Black workers at Kaiser Aluminum¡¯s Gramercy, Louisiana plant who gathered recently after the day shift. They are members of United Steelworkers Local 5702, which represents the 800 production and maintenance employees at the plant. Charles Pittman, a veteran of nineteen years at the Gramercy plant, summed it up: ¡°Weber is bringing segregation right back. We started out with nothing. When he won this, we¡¯re back to nothing.¡±The story these workers told was never heard by the courts that outlawed affirmative-action at Kaiser. Instead the courts listened to Kaiser executives, who insisted they never discriminated against Blacks. If upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, the Weber ruling would be a devastating blow to equal rights for Blacks and women in industry. It would prohibit unions from negotiating affirmative-action plans. It would also nullify the effect of Executive Order 11246, the strongest affirmative-action order ever issued by the federal government. The serious threat which Brian Weber has brought upon affirmative action should be opposed by all people who see the necessity of affirmative action, and the importance of equality. The news media have widely reported Weber¡¯s complaints of ¡°reverse-discrimination.¡± But none, have bothered to ask what Black workers at Kaiser think about it. This is not surprising. Because the real discrimination at Kaiser - past and present - is ANTI-BLACK discrimination. There is nothing "reverse¡± about it. And the affirmative-action program Weber took aim at was the only chance Blacks had to get into skilled, better paying jobs at Kaiser anytime in the forseeable future.