¡°Nubia Music,¡± a distinct creativityBy Tessa LobatoInspired by childhood passions and distinctive talent, the band ¡°Nubia," is as versatile as its name. When Nubia first formed their band four years ago, they needed a name. The members did not want a "carbon copy¡± name because their music is exclusively created. Thus, a contest was initiated to help determine a simple and unique name. The name Nubia came up. They loved it. "Nubia¡± was the former name of a country that existed in South Africa over five centuries ago. In the African lan-guage it means slaves. ¡°Nubia¡± consists of six members: George Rivera on bass, Ernie Rivera also on bass, Phillip Romero, vocalist, and Dale Garcia on key boards, are all original members. Deano Aragon on drums, and Ken Garcia on congas, joined later. Nubia said they have always had set goals. They want to have an identity that is their own. Now that they have the music power, Nubia wants to produce an album. "We knew what we were doing and what we wanted when we started the group, and that was to make it big as professional musicians,¡± said George. ¡°Music is our life and we want music to be our career,¡± Ernie said. Nubia has played music for several fundraisers and benefits because they feel that it gives them a chance to expose themselves to a different crowd of people. Nubia explained that in most cases those who attend fundraisers and benefits, go only because they want to support the cause. Many of these people would normally not go to a bar to listen to music. "Whenever we perform, we make new friends and in order to do this we must "keep being sensational.¡± When Nubia is asked to do a benefit such as the Food Drive, they can not say ¡°no¡± because they do not want to disappoint anyone, besides that excuse, they said they loved to play anyway. Nubia has a "philosophy¡± on the type of music that they play. They do not want to be remembered for playing someone elses music and songs, they want to be recognized for writing and playing their own music. Nubia dislikes playing the same type of music all night. They change their beats from Rock-n-Roll to Salsa to Disco to ¡°Nubia¡± style. The ¡°get nice, love¡± feeling music written by ¡°Nubia" reflects its members. Each member has different people and things that influence the way each writes his music. George Rivera who also plays the piano and guitar, says that he strives to compose and perform original music that is ¡°no other style than Nubia¡¯s own.¡± Mood and noise play a big part in what comes out in the lyrics. Ken Garcia, who plays the congas, said friends give him ideas for new rhythms. ¡°Anyone tapping his or her foot is making music, all I do is pick it up." Ken looks up to other percussionists because he enjoys learning their skills. ¡°I have two loves in my life, my two congas,¡± said Ken. One could probably sum up all of Nubia's talent and innovations with a song sung by the O¡¯Jays, ¡°I Love Music,¡± which Nubia does. Each member has his own idea, but if you take a closer look, you will notice that each and every idea is actually one idea broken down into minor parts: they all ¡°love¡± music, and they all want to make it as great musicians. There are several reasons why ¡°Nubia¡± and other Chicano bands are having a hard time getting off the ground. The first reason is simple. People are not booking Chicano bands. According to George Rivera, ¡°Young Chicano bands break up because they have no where to go.¡± Without bookings, there is no money. ¡°Nubia has had some good breaks,¡± said George, ¡°whenever the guys were super down, something great would happen.¡± A second reason for Chicano bands not making it in the ¡°big¡± times, is that the band must either play Disco, Rock-n-Roll, or Cultural music to be accepted. It is rare to find a band that does all of them, plus their own style; it is even more uncommon to find them on top. George says that ¡°Nubia¡± is a Chicano band playing Chicano music, because all members are Chicano, and because they play their own original music written by themselves; Chicanos. When George, Nubia¡¯s elected leader, was asked to say something about Nubia, he said, "I love them.¡± They work with one another on a professional basis as well as on friendship terms. They love the stage and the mechanics that go with looking good. Nubia has grown in size, music power and performance style since the group was first formed. All the equipment that they own, they have worked for by playing concerts and for dances. They have had highlights. They once played in a concert with ¡°Kool and the Gang," and they have had their lowtimes. There have been times when they have had to do bookings that they would never have considered doing, just because they were running "low" on money. Nubia is a special band. Each member is unique in his own way. George Rivera, with his aggressive leadership; Ernie Rivera, with his shy creativity; Phillip Romero, with his versatile voice; Ken Garcia, with his well trained ¡°congas"; Dale Garcia with his silent creativeness that one can hear when he plays his keyboard; and Deano Aragon, with the dream of being a good drummer that came true. One will notice that each and every time Nubia sings another song, it is just as though they just stepped up for the first song SO MUCH ENERGY!El Diario photos by Tessa Lobato Nubia doing nite Hubs; maltin' it look easy.¡°Anyone Upping his or her fool is making music and all I do is pick II up."