CBSA CHICANO BUSINESS STUDENTS ASSOCIATION
The Chicano Business Students Association (CBSA) at the University of Colorado is one of the larger organizations of its kind, both on a state and national level. Conceived in the fall of 1972, it is a direct outgrowth of the Chicano Movement. Presently CBSA is faced with a difficult dilemma. On one hand, we are trying to facilitate the growing number of our people into the heart of U.S. business. Yet, this very system has made the history of Chicano labor one of struggle and oppression. This is not made any easier by the fact that Chicanos do not wish to disappear into the predominantly Anglo environment of big business, but are striving to become businessmen with a Chicano outlook. Although CBSA was originated with the above purpose in mind, we are concerned with shorter range goals at the present. These include: 1) Recruitment of more students into the business school; 2) Orientation of the students, making them aware of the opportunities and academic career available through the business school; 3) Provide students with the proper academic advising to assure completion of degree requirements; 4) Bring about an awareness on the part of industry as to the needs of our students; 5) Obtain information on graduate programs; 6) Provide tutorial assistance. It should be noted that CBSA is not limited to Chicanos and we offer our services to any interested students. In the past, members have taken advantage of events such as an evening with Chicano legislators and involvement in last semester¡¯s Chicano Unity Conference. Future goals include a community consumer assistance program, obtaining involvement of MBA students, and a curriculum review. There exists a large need for organizations such as CBSA, especially within the Chicano community. We are hoping to develop leaders in the business world who are aware of our cultural origins and seek to assist others who desire academic achievement. 
Phone 492-6181  University of Colorado, Boulder