Alma Latina y JazzBY ALVIN HERRERAThe emerging Black consciousness of the 60¡¯s in the world of music influenced many Latinos to explore their own potentials and musical cultural roots. One of the results was contemporary jazz sound with a distinct style. Contemporary jazz, which evolved from the blues and Black folk music of early New Orleans, is similar to Latin jazz. But Latin jazz has orientated the vocals, piano and rhythm combos or percussion, often with a single horn. Latin jazz has been around this country since the 1840¡¯s. In New Orleans, composer Luis Gottscak was writing Brazilian and Cuban pieces. Contemporary Latin jazz differs from the Tito Puente, Tito Rodriguez era of the 50¡¯s. The mambo, presented the full Afro-Cuban percussions and the Cuban improvisation of vocals. Today¡¯s Latin jazz has incorporated somewhat with American rock music to create a rhythmic distinct character.familiarized greatly by Carlos Santana. Santana born into a musical family and raised in Tijuana, Mexico, recalls some of his first contacts with music. Say¡¯s Santana ¡°When I used to hear my father, a mariachi violinist play, I was caught. He has that presence. . .something in his voice, something in his violin makes you want to listen.¡± Santana¡¯s music is filled with Latin influences, ¡°I didn¡¯t really become a part of the San Francisco thing. I always tried to avoid it. I didn¡¯t want to become part of the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane and the Quick Silver Messenger service hippieland. I grew up with it, but 1 always felt I was someone different. ¡°It was beautiful, but it didn¡¯t sit right with me¡¯, says Santana. ¡°Today there is so much glitter-flying saucers hanging over the ceiling in giant auditoriums it¡¯s all sensationalism.¡± But to Santana what really makes the music distinct, is that it comes from the heart,¡± it has to have inspiration from the heart.¡± he says. Santana has emerged as one of the best known Latin musicians in this country. However he is but one of the many that exist today. From Argentina comes Leandro ¡°Gato¡± Barbieri, who seemed to burst open with recognition in 1972 when his vibrantly motive tenor saxaphone resounded from the screen in the movie Last Tango in Paris. Gato was raised in Buenos Aires, where he began to study music seriously at the age of 12 after hearing a recording of Charlie Parker¡¯s Now¡¯s the Time. Gato left Latin America for Europe in 1962. His fame grew in Rome, playing clubs and festivals. In 1967 Gato was inspired by the rising tide of the Black movement. He felt a need to explore his own neglected cultural roots. South American must' also has roots similar to American Jazz. 
In Columbia and Ecuador they have a mixture of Black and Indian music, some of it sounds like avant garde jazz, jazz with it¡¯s own abstract style. Jato like many other Latinos have found success in the United States. Another well known Latin Jazz percussionist known as the Cuban King of Congas is Monga Santamaria also from Latin America, bom some 55 years ago in Havana,cuba, Monga has been on the Latin jazz scene for a longer period of time than either Gato, or Santana. Santamaria was doing Brazilian music long before Stan Getz, Charlie Byrd and Sergio Mendez. Having played with Tito Puente in ¡¯5B and '59 he left the band to join Cal Tjader. In an interview in the April, ¡¯77 issue of Down Beat Magazine Mongo reflected on his music experience while n 8 in Cuba, ¡°I played in all those dubs you read about, The Tropican, Socici and Montremartre he said. Mongo left Cuba in 1948, he received permanent residency in the U.S. in 1950. The First place he worked was the Bronx¡¯s at the Tropicana Club. This was the first charanza band in the U.S. to play Cuban folk music. An interesting thing about Cuban music said Santamaria,¡°It¡¯s going to be the biggest surprise when Cuban opens up again. They are not playing only Tipica music; they are playing jazz, they are playing electronics, very up to date things.¡±