PUERTO RICO

The Island Faults Independence

Puerto Rico is an island that is 36 miles wide and 111 miles long. This is an area only slightly larger than the San Luis Valley in Colorado. It has a population of 3 million people. Three quarters of the island is hilly or mountainous. In 1950, 90 percent of the workforce was involved in agricultural production for export. By 1970, the island housed 2000 factories or plants, 60 percent of the arable land was lying fallow and only 5 percent of the workforce had anything to do with agriculture. How is it that such a rapid and complete change could happen? On July 25, 1898, Puerto Rico became a colony of the U.S. as bounty obtained from Spain in the Spanish-American War under the conditions of the 1898 Treaty of Paris. In 1952 Puerto Rico ceased to be a colony of the United States. This change had very little political or economic significance to either the U.S. or Puerto Rico. It allowed the governor of the island to be elected by the Puerto Rican people instead of being appointed by the President of the U.S., and for the creation of a legislative assembly on the island. All decisions of this assembly, however, had to be ratified by the Congress of the U.S. and were bound by the U.S. Constitution. In addition, that because Puerto Rico was no longer considered a colony, this did not release all other forms of colonial control. The United States chose to continue control over the currency (the U.S. dollar), customs, immigration, the school system, postal service, defense, trade and relation with other countries. With the creation of the commonwealth in 1952 the Puerto Rico

plan called “Operation Bootstrap”. The key feature of the plan was that all new industries coming to the island would be exempt from any taxes for a period ranging from 10 to 30 years. By 1973, there were more than 2500 factories in Puerto Rico and 83 percent of those factories were foreign owned. IMPORTANCE TO U.S. IMPERIALISM The economic importance of Puerto Rico to the United States should not be underestimated. This island of 3 million people constitutes the 5th largest market for U.S. goods in the world. In addition, U.S. investments in Puerto Rico ($14 billion) are larger than in any other Latin American country, and 10 percent of all the profits from U.S. investment around the world come from this single island. Puerto Rico also has great strategic military importance to the U.S. The U.S. has used the island as a staging area for most of its military interventions in Latin America since 1950. These interventions include the invasion of the Dominican Republic in 1965 by 30,000 marines, the ouster of the democratically elected government of Guatemala in 1954 and the “Bay of Pigs” in Cuba in 1960. With the influx of high technology industries and the outflow of high employment industries, there was a net

and this trend is continuing. This trend carries with it another aspect besides declining employment, and that is pollution. With absolutely no environmental restrictions, these industries can pump anything they want into the surrounding air or water. Two examples should illustrate the impact: A petrochemical plant located in the village of Guayanilla on the Southern coast of the island. By 1973 it was reported that only 37.5 percent of the population of Guayanilla still had normal respiratory functions, while 17 percent of the population suffered from severe respiratory problems. In the small fishing village of Barceloneta on the northern coast. A pharmaceuticals firm pumps its wastes underground, contaminating the wells that the village depends on. As a result, 1 out of every 7 first grade children are mentally retarded. And the infant mortality rate due to congenital deformities is 3 times that of Puerto Rico as a whole. In addition, the fishing industry has been totally destroyed. The preceding information was provided by the National Liberation Struggles Support Committee of Colorado (NLSSCC). The NLSSCC was formed this year by individuals that recognized that national liberation struggles are awakening throughout the world, dealing blows against imperialism, colonialism and reaction. Portions of this article were deleted and condensed for reasons of space.