Hearing remains in limboPor Lalo Delgado Feet blistered, very tired, some thirty participants on a thirty mile march gathered outside the Guadalupe Church grounds to rest and hold a rally. This was Monday July 10. On Tuesday the marching would continue. This time to the Federal Building where hearings for The El Molino Five were to resume. The marchers were members and sympathizers with the Colorado Coalition on Immigration and Human Rights. For almost a year now this Statewide coalition has been working on issues concerning undocumented workers and last year in the fall sponsored a trip to San Antonio, Texas to attend a national conference. Forty one persons took advantage of the charted bus trip. THE EL MOLINO FIVE The El Molino Five is a "caso celebre¡± which began on the 2nd of November of last year. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (I.N. S.), or ¡°La Migra" as is commonly referred to in our community, conducted an unlawful raid on EL MOLINO Tortilla factory located on 11th and Santa Fe Drive. La Migra failed to obtain permission from the owner of that establishment before conducting the raid as their own regulations do require. In the raid, nine undocumented workers were arrested. It was only after having conducted the whole investigation that I.N.S. officers remembered to advice these persons of their legal rights. Among these rights is that of counsel. The alert Chicano community did get a lawyer for them. Four of those arrested optioned to go back to Mexico voluntarily but five decided to stay here and fight their deportation as well as the fact the raid had been illegal to start with. On the 11th, the El Molino Five spent all day in court represented by their attorneys. Since the case was to last more than one day the judge chose to postpone the remaining of the hearings until a later date. Earlier the same day the same Judge had ruled on a similar case refered to as the Gerry Women. The same lawyers tried in vain to declare all testimony inadmissable since the raid and the tactics of the I.N.S. were questionable. Two of those defendants will begin a process to obtain legal papers and the others will appeal. Both Monday and Tuesday the courtrooms were packed with supporters of both the Gerry Women and The El Molino Five. Earlier on Tuesday there was a large demonstration outside the Federal Bldg. THE COLORADO STATE COALITION ON IMMIGRATION AND HUMAN RIGHTS The work of the Coalition is not limited to marching and demonstrating or just supporting the El Molino Five. The work centers around undocumented workers in all of their common every-day needs. In Brighton, at a turkey plant, a strike which was held recently brought about a bit of relief in the working conditions and wages. The Coalition is engaged in preparing teams of qualified people who can render assistance with the most common need, that of assisting those without papers to begin the long process of becoming legal residents. Workshops and training sessions are scheduled for the remaining of this year. The Coalition hosted a state-wide two-day conference and had people from out of State attend as well. Over one hundred and fifty persons attended the conference which was held in Greeley. Out of the conference a work plan was deviced which is used to develop work around.There are three main principles under which the Coalition works and which are a unifying platform for those wishing to join. These principles are: 1. STOP THE DEPORTATIONS 2. DEFEND THE RIGHTS OF UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS 3. EXPOSE CARTER¡¯S AMNESTY PLAN Fundraisers are being plan to send some of the members on a national tour to learn what other groups are doing around the country on this issue and to form alliances to begin to impact on a national level. For more information on the Coalition on Immigration contact Lalo Delgado at 425-1532.