IMPACT UNFORSEEN Colorado¡¯s tax revoltby Joseph MartinezThe Colorado Spending Limitation Committee has reached the 63,040 petition signatures required to get their amendment on the ballot in November. The amendment, if passed will curb spending on state and local governments. According to the CSLC¡¯s fact sheet ¡°elected officials will have responsibility for setting priorities and eliminating the unnecessary ...¡± The state would be limited on spending to annual increases in per capita expenditures or every new state resident and rise in the cost of living (U.S. consumer price index) would enable the government to spend a growth limit amount accurately paralleled on the index. Last year Colorado adopted the ¡°Kadlecek amendment¡± limiting growth in state spending to seven percent annually for five years-with any revenues above that targeted to tax relief. That particular amendment ignored the potential variations in inflation and population growth. The CSLC¡¯s amendment is capricious. One committee member stated that some social/poverty programs may be cut. depending on the Capitol¡¯s priorities. She also commented on how the amendment is a middleclass gain. As of yet there has been no impact study made to forsee the detrimental or positive affects the amendment could or will have on the state's minorities and lower classes. Colorado's tax revolt may not be as drastic as Proposition 13 in Califas, but the blade always hits on minorities and poor people first. For example, among the cuts Gov. Brown made before signing his ¡°era of limits" budget include: II million from child-care programs for migrant workers and 14 million from the University of California system. And just recently, an all male committee voted to restrict funding abortions for poor women under the Medi-Cal program of California. The only exceptions to the restrictions are if the child is likely to be deformed, the mother's life is dangered, or if the inborn child was conceived by rape or incest. And who will a tax cut help? We already have 26 new state laws to deal with this fiscal year. Below are a few that illustrate who is benefiting most from Colorado Legislation: ¡ªTHE MAJOR TAX CHANGE is a law that enables Coloradoans to itemize deductions on their state tax returns without itemizing on their federal returns. ¡ªPersons who trade automobiles, boats, or airplanes are exempt from sales tax on such transactions on less than three trades per year. ¡ªColorado's occupational safety and health program has expired July 1. The federal government has acquired its duties, by default.