Exclusive

Police Crime in Fort Lupton

By Lorraine Gutierrez

In 1836 Fort Lupton developed into a fur trading post located along the Platte River. Its main purpose as described by Mary Geffs in her book Under 10 Flags, was to serve as a refuge for harassed whites to hide from the Indians. In fact, on February 2, 1848, the Mexican-American War officially ended, when the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was signed. With this treaty the U.S. took over an area which included Texas, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah and Colorado. The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo resulted in the take-over of land in Colorado and other states which belonged to the native Indians. The whites immediately took advantage of the new treaty and set out to claim the land, which is now Fort Lupton, Colorado. The Fort Lupton area has a population of about 3,000 people. About forty percent of the population is composed of Chicanos; fifty percent is composed of whites and ten percent others. There are approximately 264 job positions, ranging from cashiers to service station attendants, available, but only thirty job positions are occupied by Chicanos. Of these 264 job positions and local businesses, forty percent of the business trade is done by local Chicanos. Fort Lupton has celebrated 18 cases of police violence and three shootings of Chicano community members. Fort Lupton has a long history of police violence. I will describe only a few of the reported violent acts. The first documented case of police violence happened on January 28, 1971. On that day a $1,000,000 damage suit was filed in the U.S. District Court in Denver against Officer Ronald Richards by four persons who alleged injuries and unlawful arrest by the officer the week before. On January 30, 1971 about 100 marchers took part in a demonstration and march on the streets of Fort Lupton protesting alleged police brutality. On the same day there were demonstrations at the Weld County courthouse in Greeley. On September 17, 1977 at

about 7:30 P.M., officers Edwards and Snapp were riding together. They responded to a family disturbance. Responding to the call, the officers didn’t find Anthony Martinez at his home. They awaited his return, then a fight broke out and Snapp drew his service revolver and fired once. The bullet struck Martinez’s chest and knocked him down. Martinez was dead at the scene. On Wednesday, September 21, a Weld County coroner’s jury of three men and three women returned a verdict of “Justifiable Homocide.” Officer Snapp served eight years as a reserve officer with the Greeley Police Department. Officer Edwards served for three years as a reserve officer for the Fort Lupton Police Department. The community members have many unanswered questions. Some of the questions are: Why did the two reserve officers respond to the call? Where were the Fort Lupton police officers? Could the situation have been handled in a different manner if the officers had been better trained? The parents of Anthony Martinez are filing a complaint with the U.S. Justice Department asking the Attorney General to turn Anthony’s case over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, that they might investigate the case further to bring about justice for Anthony. On March 23, 1978, Fort Lupton officer Terence Armijo shot and killed Ruben Jose Rivera, 38, a Fort Lupton resident involved in a bar fight. Officer Armijo had been on the job under a month before the incident occurred. Officer Les Ferguson and Terence Armijo responded to a call from the Town Tavern. The officers stated that they heard a shot before entering the bar. Rivera fell to the floor after three bar patrons jumped on him. Officers Ferguson and Armijo supposedly attempted to get the gun from Rivera. They stated that the gun came upward and pointed at their heads. Armijo stated that he then fired his weapon at Rivera, fatally wounding him.