THE LONGEST WALKNative Americans Make DemandsIndians from the ¡°Longest Walk¡± marched to the White House last week and criticized Carter for preaching human rights in the Soviet Union but ignoring domestic grievances of Native Americans. The Indians began walking from San Francisco to Washington D.C. last February to present the "Native American Manifest,¡± and to oppose legislation they feel will open up their reservations to exploitation by mining companies. Amongst the most protested bills is the ¡°Native American Equal Opportunity Act.¡± This bill, if passed will terminate all treaties and all remnants of Indian Self Government. There are a total of eleven anti-Indian bills coming before Congress. Some of the ramifications are: to abolish rights to land, fishing, water, natural resources, medical care, cultural programs, tribal government, and reservations as a whole. The "Longest Walk¡± is as much spiritual as political. Supporters of the walk came from all walks of life and a diversity of tribes. The House Bills will affect all Indian tribes in the U.S.. In an interview with The Call newspaper Bill Wahpehah, a Coordinator of the walk, stated, ¡°In South Dakota, Native Americans make up only 1% of the population, but at Sioux Falls Penitentiary, 25% of the prison population is Indian. They have plans now to have all-Indian prisons with all-Indian prisons with allIndian guards. They try to make it sound like a positive thing.¡± House Bill, H.R. 6869 proposes this. It is authored by Sen. Ted Kennedy. The ¡°Longest Walk¡± entered the nations capitol on July 15th. On July 18th tribal leaders met with Vice President Mondale who called the walk ¡°a dramatic and courages march¡±. President Carter, despite Indian requests did not join the discussion. In regards to Soviet dissedents, A.I.M. leader Russel Means said Carter could ¡°point fingers all over the globe on human rights, but when he points his fingers, three are pointing back.¡± Indians accused Carter of ¡°Hypocrisy¡± for ignoring human rights in this country. In a joint statement entitled ¡°Hypocrisy, and Outrage.¡±Indians charged that the FBI is responsible for many ¡°violent deaths" of Indian leaders. The FBI closed their high folding gates to protesters ¡°as a precaution against the demonstration turning violent¡±, FBI spokesmen said. Russel Means charged the government with ¡°genocide¡± against the Indians and of sterilizing Indian women ¡°to massacre our unborn". Unwanted sterilizations given by doctors, especially following an operation or child birth are seen by Means a way to decimate the already vanishing Indian by the Monolithic corporations and government mining operations. Margaret Carlson, a Yurok Indian from California, said. ¡°The United States cannot expect Indians just to lay over and not fight" . . . ¡°Indians have been treated like dogs,¡± she said. "We have our own laws about how to fish on the reservation. But now they are saying you will live under our (federal) laws or you will be arrested. We shouldn't have to go through this again.¡±