Support Gaining for 5 Puerto Rican Nationalists

Andres Figueroa Cordero, Lolita Lebron, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Irvin Flores, and Oscar Collazo — all members of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party — have been in prison for over 20 years and were sentenced to pass the rest of their lives there. One of them, Andres Figueroa Cordero, was recently released because he was terminally ill with cancer. The U.S. government did not want to make a martyr out of him by having him die in prison. The 4 Puerto Rican Nationalist Party members who remain in prison today are the longest held political prisoners in the United States. What was the crime which resulted in their life-long imprisonment? All 5 Nationalist Party members were imprisoned for trying to end the inhuman oppression of their people by U.S. imperialism. All 5 Nationalist Party members were put away for life because they dared to struggle to win independence for Puerto Rico. PUERTO RICO EXPLOITED BY U.S. The struggle of the Puerto Rican people for independence is a struggle against brutal colonial exploitation by

U.S. imperialism. Since 1898 the U.S. has held the destiny of that small island in its profit-greedy hands. Today as a colony of the U.S. (under the cover name of Commonwealth) the Puerto Rican people continue to be dominated politically, militarily, and economically. 1. 35% of Puerto Rican women have been sterilized. 2. The U.S. Congress and courts determine and define the laws of Puerto Rico. 3. As a U.S. military stronghold, 13% of the island is occupied by U.S. military bases. 4. Puerto Rico is a cheap source of labor for U.S. businesses. 5. Puerto Rico is a rich market for U.S. goods where prices are 25% higher than in the United States. 6. And it is a paradise for big businesses where factories established in Puerto Rico are tax exempt. U.S. imperialism has maintained its grip on the island since 1898 through the outright slaughter of people who

have risen to fight against this exploitation. At the same time it has tried to pacify independence movements by pretending to give the Puerto Rican nation some democratic rights like a puppet governor whose strings are attached to the U.S. imperialists and by giving them a meaningless Bill of Rights. But the Puerto Rican people have not stood idly by while large numbers of their brothers and sisters, their entire nation, has been exploited for profits. Nor have they been fooled by fake promises of freedom and independence for Puerto Rico through statehood or commonwealth status. The people of Puerto Rico want complete independence and they have demonstrated their willingness to fight for it. NATIONALIST PARTY LED STRUGGLE OF MASSES In 1930, after years of struggle, the hunger of the Puerto Rican people for freedom led to the formation of the Nationalist Party under the leadership of Albizu - Campos. The Nationalist Party was a revolutionary, anti-imperialist organization. It saw that multinational unity was the only way to win the struggle for independence. The Nationalist Party consistently fought to unite all the people on the island who were willing to support or take up the struggle of independence for Puerto Rico. In 1950 the Nationalist Party led the masses of Puerto Rican people in an armed uprising against U.S. imperialist domination of the island. The U.S. imperialists met this struggle with the mobilization of its massive military force, arresting hundreds of Puerto Ricans and shooting whole towns. At the same time, the U.S. newspapers and television, owned and controlled by the imperialists with business interests in Puerto Rico, completely blacked out news of the struggle of Puerto Rico and especially blacked out news of the bloody measures taken against the people. Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola, members of the Nationalist Party in the U.S., knew that the progressive people of the world needed to be aware of and protest the brutal deeds which the U.S. was perpetrating behind this black wall of silence. To bring the exploitation of the island of Puerto Rico and the suppression of the people’s struggle out in the open, Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola, attempted to assasinate President Truman.

Torresola was killed in the attempt and Collazo sentenced to life imprisonment. Their tactic proved to be a correct way of meeting their objective. Collazo and Torresola did not think that if they succeeded in killing Truman, Puerto Rico would be free. But by aiming their blow at the political figurehead chieftain of U.S. imperialism they brought worldwide attention to the struggle of the Puerto Rican people. Every major newspaper in the world reported the attempted assasination and then had to explain why 2 Puerto Ricans would even want to the head of the United States. The plight of Puerto Rico was front-page news all over the world. The armed uprising of 1950 was suppressed, but the people’s desire for freedom could not be killed. The inhuman repression of the Puerto Rican people continued and so did the struggle against it. In 1954 four Nationalist Party members, Lolita Lebron, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Andres Figueroa Cordero, and Irvin Flores, led an armed assault on the U.S. House of Representatives. They made their target that political branch of U.S. imperialism which had made a joke of the Puerto Rican people’s desire for freedom by passing laws to give them mock rights. The U.S. Congress had made a mockery of the cause of independence by telling the Puerto Rican people they were no longer oppressed bacause they were allowed to have an entry in the Miss Universe contest. STRUGGLE CONTINUES All 5 Nationalist Party members were imprisoned in federal penitentiaries. But true to Collazo’s and Torresola’s expectations, when the progressive people of the world took up the cause of Puerto Rican independence. They protested militantly and demanded the release of the 5 Nationalists. It was the pressure of the people which brought about the release Andres Figueroa Cordero. If the masses of the people had not taken up the cause of the 5 Nationalists, the U.S. would have let him die quietly in prison. But because the people took up the struggle, because they marched, picketed, and rallied in support of the 5 Nationalists, the U.S. government did not want the death of Cordero on its hands. It released him to die in relative freedom — relative because he cannot be free until the island of Puerto Rico is free.

But 4 Nationalist Party members remain in prison. We cannot give up the struggle. We must continue to rally, march and picket in support of the 5 Nationalists. We must continue to demand their unconditional release. If we support the Puerto Rican struggle for independence we must support this demand for it has become a rallying cry within the Puerto Rican movement, just as the 5 Nationalists have become symbols of Puerto Rican independence, struggles. Living in the U.S. we have the particular responsibility to struggle for their release since it is our country which has imprisoned them and enslaved the Puerto Rican nation. We must struggle against U.S. imperialism at home. We must follow the correct politics of the Nationalist Party of the 1930’s and unite all people who will take up the struggle. To do this the National Liberation Struggles Support Committee of Colorado calls on all progressive and revolutionary people and organizations to help us to build for a rally in support of the 5 Nationalists and to demand the unconditional release of the 4 remaining imprisoned Nationalists. The event will be held on January 27. The event will be based on the following principles: 1. Puerto Rico is a nation as well as a colony of the United States. The Puerto Ricans living in the U.S. are

an oppressed national minority. 2. The Puerto Rican people have the right to self-determination and independence. We do not see statehood as an answer to the Puerto Rican struggle. 3. The struggle of the Puerto Ricans is a struggle against U.S. imperialism. 4. Support for the 5 Nationalists. 5. Multinational unity must be forged in the struggle against imperialism. 6. Each group which helps to sponsor the event can maintain its independence and initiative. People interested in helping with the event can contact the NLSSCC by writing or calling: NLSSCC P.O. Box 11033, Denver, CO 458-0960.