Police Crime in Weld County

The first part of this series (November) consisted of the constant police violence occurring in Fort Lupton, Colorado. It included one of the three brutal killings, for which the Police Department are responsible. The three killings (all of which occurred in a nine month period) are Anthony Martinez (Sept. 19, 1977), Ruben Rivera (March 23, 1978) and Anthony Maestas (May 13, 1978). In this series I will continue with the unjust killing of Ruben Rivera and Anthony Maestas. The investigation of Rivera’s killing was turned over to the Weld County Sheriff’s Office. The Sheriff's officer, David Holm testified, that a metal detection scanning test conducted on Rivera’s hands showed a gun “probably” had been fired by him during the night. Rick Dill, the officer which investigated the Martinez case also headed this investigation. There wasn’t anything done in the Martinez case, why should officer Dill do something for Rivera? Dill stated that from his investigation, the bullet found. 13 ft. away was in the line of

fire from where Rivera’s body was located. The second or any other bullets were never found. On April 5, 1978, a Weld County coroner’s jury decided that officer Terence Armijo killed Rivera “accidentally” and “without felonious intent”. The jury of three men and three women determined, after deliberating 45 minutes, (short period for the life of a dead man) that Armijo did not act recklessly nor with intent to commit a felony, and the shooting was an accident. Armijo was temporarily relieved of duty since the incident occured. This is justice: they praise the officer by giving him a paid vacation, for killing a human life. Armijo returned to duty on April 6. Ferguson, who had resigned earlier, was serving on his last shift with the police department the night of the shooting. The community questioned the verdict due to many unanswered questions. Some of the facts are: the misuse of power, injury to Rivera’s right arm, and not more than one shot

was found. Davis Rivera, asked if Armijo considered to use other forms of restrainment. Armijo replied “that there wasn’t enough time”. Rivera's sister, Ida said that her brother had a long-time injury with his right arm, and couldn’t see how Rivera could of fired the gun or thrown Ferguson off. Rivera couldn’t of thrown Ferguson, officer Armijo and three other men with an injured arm, like he suffered from. Gilbert Rivera, brother of the deceased and member of the Brighton Police Dept, questioned Rush about the findings. “Why do you officers assume more than one shot fired when only one bullet was found?" Rush said because the ceiling tiles in the bar were perforated with holes, finding other bullet holes was difficult. It is difficult for Rush to look for the other bullets but, it didn’t seem to very difficult for Rush to present the fact that Rivera shot first. If shots were heard before entering the bar, could the bullet found belong to this shot? If

a shot was fired before Armijo fired, where is the bullet hole? Armijo served on the force for only a period of about two months before the shooting occured. Some people also question if he was qualified to handle the problem. They also question the fact that if Rivera was so strong why didn’t the officers call for help before entering the bar? On April 29, 1978 a meeting of bikers was held at the annual place, the Colorado Speedway in Erie, Colorado. There were about 600 people attending this meeting. The two groups of importance are the Invaders and the Loadz. Two parachuters were landing close to the meeting, when one of the men landed in the Loadz group. A

fight broke out and one of the parachuters was killed. David Amour, escaped without any injuries. This caused great alarm for the police departments because they didn’t know which group was involved in the fight. They sought out to find the bikers. On May 13, 1978, two months after Rivera was killed, Officer Santiago Perez shot and killed Anthony Maestas, a biker from Brighton. Anthony Maestas died of a gun shot wound to the head after officer Perez apparently fired in self defense when the motorcyclist allegedly attempted to run him over at the roadblock during the high speed chase with law enforcements and Weld County Sheriff’s officers. Anthony Maestas was in no way a part of the groups that attended

the bikers get-together. The incident began at about 8 p.m. in Frederick, when five motorcycles allegedly refused to stop for a traffic violation for Frederick police. A chase ensued through Dacono, without any lights. Police officers requested assistance from Dacono and Fort Lupton Officers. Fort Lupton officer Perez responded to the call, set up a roadblock three miles west of Fort Lupton on Highway 52, at the top of the hill. Still the bikers did not know of the roadblock, or of any chase. Anthony’s wife said he was trying to slow down when he first saw the Fort Lupton policeman. She said that she heard the gun and then Anthony was like jelly and they crashed. Officer Perez fired one shot from his 38 caliber gun, killing Maestas. Anthony’s wife whom was riding with Anthony suffered injuries and was taken to Brighton Community Hospital. The only problem with the officers report is that Maestas was shot in the back of the head with a 38 caliber revolver, with his wife riding with him. It is very hard to understand why Anthony was shot in the back of the head when he was heading straight for officer Perez. (I) Section (3-27), 3-26 pp8, 3-31 p8. Officer Perez violated the following by standing in front of his car instead of behind it, using unnecessary force or violence in making an arrest, misuse of his firearm. These are just a few of the violations which Perez is guilty of committing. On May 30, 1978 a demonstration took place in Downtown, Fort Lupton with about 100 people attending. The marchers demanded that Perez be fired. On Fourth Street the marchers presented the Mayor Joe Martinez with a list of demands. Some of these demands included; Officer Perez be fired. (2) An investigation of all murders in Fort Lupton. (3) An investigation of the coroner’s inquest, complete with special prosecutor be made. (4) A stop to police overreaction. Some of the other demands are; That officer Perez violated some of the rules and regulations as stated in the Fort Lupton manual of rules and procedures. In the next series I will continue to cite more cases of violence in Fort Lupton. The next case includes the brutal beating of 11 youths which resulted in four ending up in a hospital. The 11 youths were also charged after they were beaten up and left to die.