Community columnPrison conditions in Mexico are extremely poor. People have to sleep on cement floors, eat nothing but dried bread and beans and withstand intense temperature changes. In the summer, heat is immense and during the winter cold subsides. Singing and wood carving are some of the activities inmates do in order to divert their attention away from the increasing over-dose rate, stabbings, cruelty and starvation that occur nonchalantly in shallow cells. ? After five and a half months of imprisonment, Jose and Cindy Alcalan were released from the Penetenccria Municipal in Juarez, Mexico. The couple was picked up in February and charged for allegedly transporting Mexicanos across the border into the United States. The Alcalans were apprehended, abused and charged unjustly. When the Alcalans were arrested, they were in the city of Juarez several miles from the border; nevertheless within a few hours the Alcalans were mainstreamed into the Mexican prison institution. Family and friends of the Alcalan couple immediately pursued the attempt to get them releaseJ to no avail. Corrupt police, lawyers and administrators in Mexico worked ¡°pocket in pocket¡± to repress the Alcalans by keeping them locked up. Not only did administrators work to repress the Alcalans in Mexico but also in the United States.Phone calls, letters and appearances were made to Colorado legislators, representatives, the American Consulate, the Catholic Church and to other agencies that exist supposedly to ¡°serve the people.¡± Every possible avenue was sought for some action to be taken, again to no avail. Officials simply did not investigate the case. Both the Mexican and the United States systems proved to be non-caring of the people¡¯s needs. Since governments in all imperialistic systems strive to maintain wealth within and solely for the ruling class and special interest groups, it is evident that the governments are not allies of the people and will not work toward the aid of the people. The only allies of the people are the PEOPLE. In order to rid the ruling class of its obstructive, repressive power it is imperative that all oppressed people stand and demand their basic human rights. We, the people pay the ¡°administrators¡± to serve and it is up to us to make sure that they do indeed ¡°serve the people¡±. Why were the Alcalan¡¯s and so many others like them arrested? Why did administrators from both countries fail to assist them? In times of dire emergencies, since the systems do not work for the people, where can the people turn for assistance? These are questions we must all ask ourselves and the administrations. Had government officials done their job ¡°to serve the people¡± these quest ons would not have been raised.