Undocumented workers; a unifying chicano causeBy Luella ValerioThrough out the history of the United States there have been people that have fled their homeland in prospects of finding new hope in a nation filled with dreams. They have come from Ireland, Italy, Germany, China and from Latin America. In every case, people were coming to the States to start a new life for themselves and their families. These are the people that America is built on - Immigrants. We are known to ourselves and others as the ¡°Melting Pot¡± Nation. Yet the new immigrants are finding it difficult to melt into the pot. The new immigrant or rather the undocumented worker is finding it difficult to belong to this nation of hope.When a person has entered the country without papers he is not going to a place where he could be found and deported back to the place he ran from. The Undocumented Workers main concern is to earn money so he can provide food and shelter for his family and is willing to do anything. ¡°If you're here without papers, you¡¯re very reluctant to appear before any authority. So we find 1 or 2 percent figures of that sort that are actually on welfare.¡± He has in someway become an enemy. The public sees an undocumented worker as one who is doing harm to them by taking jobs and using tax dollars to support themselves through welfare. The undocumented worker is being looked at as a major cause for our nation's money difficulties. Are these persons freeloaders who have only come to America to collect welfare? In a 1978 February interview with the magazine U.S. News, Lionel J. Castillo, Commissioner, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service had this to say on the matter of Undocumented Workers taking welfare supplements.The majority of the people in this country who have no papers pay taxes with the same as any other American citizen along with their Social Security. In a June 18, 1976 issue of the Wall Street Journal, you will find these statistics dealing with the undocumented worker. 73 percent paid Federal Income Taxes, 71 percent paid Social Security, less than 4 percent had children in school or had collected unemployment. Only one half of one percent had been on welfare. These figures don¡¯t seem to indicate that the Undocumented worker has been taking time off to rest. The new immigrant has been made into a villain when in truth he is the victim. He is taken advantage of since he wants to come into the States to live and work. Coyotes or, in other words, smugglers earn a ¡®Pretty Penny¡¯ when they find a person who wants to get across the border into the U.S.. Smugglers charge from SBOO to 11,000 a person in providing their services. How does a poor person get this money to pay the Coyote? One way is that relatives in the States pay off the smuggler, but the most common way is that the person becomes a twentieth century indentured servant. He pays a certain percentage of his wages until the debt is paid. From the moment he starts to enter the country the worker is victimized. The worker usually finds employment in the fields, or in some factory job where he receives the minimum wage or less. Most business persons who hire the undocumented worker find it to their benefit to hire persons with no legal papers, so they can use the pressure to hire them for less. The work is hard and conditions aren¡¯t good. Working in 100 degree heat does not sound like ideal working conditions. President Carter's Amnetsty Plan provides new hardships for the Undocumented Worker. In his proposal he outlines a Five Year Plan. The Five Year Plan is one which gives a person the right to work in the States for five years. When he comes for a job he must leave his family behind. This separates families, dividing them from each other, breaking a home structure. The worker while working in the U.S. shall have to pay taxes. The worker shall never be allowed the benefits his taxes are paying for, unemployment, food stamps, and Social Services. These are some of the prices he must pay to be able to work in the States. Working for five years in the States is to give the Government time to decide which and how many of the Five Year Plan worker will be allowed to stay on permanently in the U.S.. The worker have no guarantee that his hard labor will provide him with his papers to stay. The Plan would deport all undocumented workers who arrived in 1977. A large roundup would send these people back to their homes across the border. Many of these people have just started to settle down to a new lifestyle and getting adjusted just to be picked up and sent back to start over again if they can. If home is Mexico, to start again will be hard since the unemployment rate is as high as 40 percent. Just a few proposes of the Carter¡¯s Administration have been given. Yes, the problem of new immigrants is great and a solution is needed. The answer isn¡¯t to punish the Undocumented Worker, the victim, but rather punish those who victimized them. See them as people and not numbers. Recognize them as people with dreams and hopes, not enemies. Off the shore of New York stands a lady who welcomes many new comers to our Nation with this message written beneath her; Give me your tired, your poor Your huddled masses yearing to breath free. Send these, the homeless, temptess tossed, to me I left my lamp beside the Golden Door. What a shame if her words were nothing but lies.