Forum

Letter to the Editor

Boulder County Inmate Discusses Jail Conditions

Friend, You probably don’t know me or who I am. I will introduce myself as a brother and fellow human being. Presently, I am incarcerated in the Boulder County Jail - a jail that boasts being the most modern and humane in the State of Colorado. I have yet to find out who defined this facility as humane. It is far from that. New buildings and healthy smiling faces (the people who work here) don’t make a humane environment that’s just a facade. This letter is to inform you, Brothers and Sisters, of what is really coming down. I will be as objective as possible. Now, while I sit here writing this expose, I am in physical pain. I’m not dying, but I am suffering. In a facility supported by one of the wealthiest counties in the state. I am told the budget (medical budget) is too small to get me to the hospital. On Tuesday April 17, 1978, Dr. Fessler (jail doctor) examined me. He recommended I be

taken to Denver General Hospital for treatment. The sheriff’s department has since given me a runaround, delaying transporting me for treatment. They said I could wait until I get out to get treatment. I have been hemorrhaging for three days now, and getting worse. I have ruptured hemorrhoids and they are painful. I am afraid of getting an infection that could lead to cancer. Something like that happened to another inmate within the last four months. I am doing 90 days here; five weeks ago an infection was found in my blood; nothing has been done about it. Today a nurse asked for some blood; I told her I would give her blood, but that I would draw my own. The reason for this is she had messed up one girl pretty badly trying to draw blood, and still couldn't do it. I don’t trust her with my body. She told me I was refusing treatment by not letting her touch me. I told her I would give blood but someone else - another one of the nurses - could draw it, not her. She said I was refusing treatment, therefore they were no longer responsible for my health. All I am asking is that the public, the Boulder County Board of commissioners, take a look at the inhumanities that have been subtly taking effect at this jail. The mental harassment and abuse, the subtle racism. Let them know that Sheriff Brad Leach never sets foot in the jail to find out

what is going on, and that the new warden or “Director of Corrections,” is a fast-talking politician. There is no concern for the health of individuals. Just like the old Boulder County Jail. Is it going to take the death of another inmate another human being (John Fitch died in the old jail in 1975), for lack of medical attention, before something is done? RESPECTFULLY, (name withheld by request)

P.S. I sent the envelope with a return address of another inmate’s name, due to the fact my mail seems to get lost or delayed for long periods of time. Last time close to 3 weeks. Racism is prevalent in this facility but hard to prove. The best way to check it out is by talking to all the non-white inmates; also by looking at the treatment files. I am to be released October 31, 1978.