An Annual Tradition in Boulder

This year the annual event of Las Posadas will be presented at the UMC Ballroom on Friday, Dec. 8 and Sunday, Dec. 10 at 8:00 p.m. This event has been a tradition on the University of Colorado campus since 1973, when Don Wadley and Robert Garcia initiated the first performance of ‘‘Las Posadas.” This tradition, however, is not limited only to this campus or era. The story of Las Posadas began centuries ago in Mexico and was brought to the

Southwest long before the whites settled the area. The story concerns the birth of Jesus and how Jose and Maria were turned away from the inns in Bethlehem. As the story goes, Satanas was in Bethlehem trying to prevent the birth of Jesus and went from inn to inn telling the posaderos not to house women with child, as they were carriers of a deadly plague. God had sent his angel, Rafael, to capture Satanas. So in the end, the devil is captured and Maria finds a

place to rest. The story varies differently in each area. Songs have told the story for centuries and the tradition of going from house to house has been a long one. The old tradition has been put into theatrical and musical media presenting the story and encouraging the tradition, which had been lost for a generation in some areas in Colorado. This revival has spread to many other areas in and out of the state. In previous years the actors consisted mainly of Spanish

Theatre students, and choruses have been organized within the community. This year’s new director, Lynn Cordova, thought that the tradition should not only encompass the adult generation, but should also be passed down to the children. Therefore, the actors and chorus are made up of children aged eight to sixteen years of age. The whole performance remains within the Spanish language. According to the director,

“The kids love it and are excited. It is getting so I have to beg the kids for time to myself. It’s going to be an excellent production.” This year’s event is sponsored by the Department of Spanish and Portuguese, Phi Beta Sigma (Spanish Language Fraternity), and Migrant Action Program Student Association. The performances are free. If anyone is interested in helping, call 494-3567 or 492-7241 during the day.