Appeal for International Solidarity
EL DIA RIO NOTE: In Nicaragua thousands of people have been killed and terrorized by President Somoza¡¯s "National Guard. ¡± Many persons think that the guerrillas were completely wiped out with the fall of Esteli on September 22. but in the revolutionary spirit of Augusto Sandino, the Nicaraguan civilian population is still aiming at Somoza's ouster. President Anastasio Somoza is calling for free elections in Nicaragua in an attempt to remove any more armed resistance to his regime. There is only one catch: The elections will not begin until 1981. Alvaro Chamorro, the only legally recognized opposition leader to President Anastasio Somoza in Nicaragua, rejected the dictators pledge to remain in power until 1981, saying it weakened any foreign mediation of the nation¡¯s civil war even before it could begin. Somoza¡¯s family has ruled Nicaragua for the past 41 years. The U.S. military installed Somoza¡¯s father into power in 1933. Leaders of the Broad Opposition Front are demanding that the U.S. cut off all military and economic aid to the Nicaraguan government saying that it is only going to Somoza¡¯s politicians. The Broad Opposition Front and the Sandinistas are both seeking Somoza¡¯s downfall. The Sandinistas take their name from the late August Cesar Sandino who fought U.S. Marines when they occupied Nicaragua in the 1930¡¯5. The Broad Opposition Front is a coalition of 16 political parties and unions that are striking against the present dictatorship. The strike stopped all commercial activity in Nicaragua before the full-scale fighting between the National Guard and the Marxist Sandinistas. On September 21, a guided missile cruiser was spotted off the coast of Nicaragua. The vessel has been identified as the R.K. Turner on a U.S. Navy Mission. The Navy acknowledged the voyage of the cruiser only when it was asked about reports that a U.S. aircraft carrier had appeared off Nicaragua. Sources said that the cruiser¡¯s orders came from Atlantic Command Headquarters. It was not disclosed whether those orders were from the military or the civilian chain of command in Washington. Spokesman for the Sandinistas, Angel Borrejon appealed for ¡°international solidarity¡± to block U.S. intervention in the conflict. Interesting enough, a ¡°special Carter envoy¡± met with President Somoza on September 24.

