Global News

SAN FRANCISCO, Calif— Last month, American Indian Movement (AIM) leader Dennis Banks was arrested by U.S. customs authorities on a warrant issued 3 years ago in South Dakota. Banks was released however, because California Governor Jerry Brown refused to extradite him on grounds that the man’s life would be in danger if he were imprisoned there. This fall, AIM leader Russell Means was stabbed in the chest while imprisoned in South Dakota State Penitentiary. Means had just completed a spiritual fast that lasted more than 30 days before the warden ordered that he be force-fed by intravenous injection. PERU— In this small Latin American country, an independent “anti-terrorism” tribunal is being formed to investigate the military government’s link to a wave of bombings and kidnappings aimed at leftists. According to The Militant newspaper, participants in the tribunal include editors and publishers from 5 of Peru’s leading independent periodicals. PLYMOUTH, Mass.— On Thanksgiving Day of this year, native peoples and supporters gathered at the place where pilgrims had first arrived in this country. The turkey-day march and rally was sponsored by the United American Indians (UAI) organization out of New England. Every year the UAI sponsors a “Day of Mourning” on the day that millions of americans feast and celebrate the anglo conquest of occupied America. So on next Thanksgiving day just remember, you are what you eat. NEW YORK CITY— Last year, policeman Robert Torsney shot and killed a fifteen-year-old black youth. He was found not guilty by reason of insanity and was placed in a state mental institution. Last month, the State Department on Mental Hygiene recommended that Torsney be released and did not rule out the possibility of his returning to the New York police department. SAN ANTONIO— At San Antonio College, the school administration has ruled that all non-English languages such as Spanish or Persian, are prohibited on campus. According to La Unidad newspaper, Dr. Earl Wright, associate dean for student affairs, issued the ban to prevent distribution of a Young Socialist Alliance bilingual leaflet in September. The United Mexican American Students (UMAS) organization at the college voted to fight for freedom of speech and oppose the ban imposed by the school administration. The majority of the 21,000 students at SAC are Chicano.

U.S.A., — The State Department has ruled that Hector Marroquin, 24-year-old social activist and student leader be deported back to Mexico. Marroquin was seeking a plea of amnesty by the U.S. government for fear that if returned to Mexico his life would be gravely endangered. Marroquin has allegedly been framed-up on charges of terrorism and subversion in Mexico. He faces imprisonment, torture and, as in some cases of other political activists in Mexico, he also faces death. ALBUQUERQUE — La Raza Unida member, Antonio De Vargas was recently awarded $55,000 by a federal court for violation of his civil liberties by New Mexico State Senator Emilio Naranjo and four former sheriff’s deputies. Two years ago, when Naranjo was county sheriff, De Vargas was arrested on drug charges by Naranjo’s deputies. De Vargas claimed that he was being framed by Naranjo’s pawns, whom along with the Senator have a reputed history of harassment toward the La Raza Unida party. WASHINGTON The census bureau has reported that after two years of increases, the number of poor people in the U.S. has dropped by 3.5 percent to 25 million in 1976. In the report released Aug. 14, 30 percent of the 25 million poor were black; 11 percent were Latinos; and 40 percent were under 18 years of age. The report also noted that the number of whites below the poverty level decreased by 5.9 percent (1.1 million). Ninety five percent of the poor were non-farm residents according to the government survey. These figures are not definitely accurate. There are many Latinos that are sleepers (i.e. Undocumented workers, etc.) that do not receive any government assistance because of fear of La Migra. Therefore they are indetectable. Washington According to a new Census Bureau report Americas Spanish-origin population is younger and poorer than the rest of the country. The median age in March, 1978, of the country's 12 million people of Spanish origin was 22.1, compared to 30 for the rest of the population. Spanish-origin men had a 1977 median income of $7,797 compared with $10,261 for Non-Spanish-origin women. 21 percent of Spanish-origin families had incomes below the poverty level last year, compared with 9 percent among Non-Spanish-surname families. Women of Spanish-surname descent generally held better jobs than men of the same background. About half of the Spanish origin women held white-collar jobs compared with about one-fourth of the Spanish-surname men. 58 percent of employed Spanish-origin men were blue-collar workers, 24 percent white-collar workers, and 13 percent service workers in places such as hospitals and restaurants. The report said 7.2 million Americans of Spanish descent are of Mexican origin; 1.8 million of Puerto Rican origin; 900,000 of Central or South American origin, and 1.5 million of other Spanish origin.