A seis anos del golpe Chile aim lucha contra la dictadura
The sixth anniversary of the death of Chilean Socialist President Salvador Allende and the temporary fall of the Chilean popular movement has been remembered world-wide by the members of the deposed government and movement. In Stockholm. Sweden, members of the government of this country have declared that the Chilean junta “have embodied brutal persecution and the oppression of the weak and the poor.” One member of the Chileans in exile declared, in a speech based on the sixth anniversary of the overthrow of the popular Chilean government that is essential "to remember that the solidarity with the Chilean people is rooted in Swedish public opinion, through all political parties. On the other hand supporters of the military dictatorship in Chile have declared that there exists an international campaign to “darken” the Independence Day (September 18) celebrations. This was because the confederation of Latin American workers has declared a boycott against the dictatorship during the month of September, who were also supported by the National Federation of Dockworkcrs of Bogota, Colombia and the Argentinian transportation dock and telecommunications. Meanwhile inside Chile almost 100 persons put an end to the hunger strikes maintained in the Denmark Embassy in the capital and other cities throughout the country to obtain “one of the objectives of our struggle.” The Hunger Strike finished when the martial court resolved to return fifteen cadavers of missing political activists which were found in an abandoned mine, outside the city. Another objective of the strike was to obtain information about 651 other persons missing since 1975 after having been arrested by security members of the dictatorship. Chilean exiles with the solidarity of the Mexican people also commemorated the sixth anniversary of the overthrow. “We remember today our martyr President, Salvador Allende, assassinated six years ago when he defended the Palacio de la Moncda. as well as we commemorate the memory of the thousands of patriots who perished in defense of Chilean Democracy.”
El sexto aniversario dc la mucrlc del presidente socialista chileno Salvador Allende v dc la temporal caida del movimienlo popular chileno ha siclo recordado mundialmcntc por los miembroK del depuesto gobierno v movimienlo. En Estocolmo, Succia. miembros del gobierno de estc par, han declarado que la junta chilcna “encarna la persucion brutal v la opresion de los debiles v los pobres.” Un miembro de los chilcnos en exilio declarer en un discurso con motivo del sexto aniversario del derrocamicnto del gobierno popular chileno que es imprcscindible “rccordar que la solidaridad con el pueblo chileno csta enraizada en la opinion pfiblica sueca. a traves de todos los partidos politicos.” Por otra parte partidarios de la dictadura militar en Chile han manifestado que existe una campana intcrnacional para “cnsombrecer” las celebraciones del dia dc indepcndcncia (18 dc septiembre). Fsto fit? por motivo de que la confcderacitfn dc Trabajadores l.atinoamericanos ha declarado cstg mes (septiembre) un bovcot contra la dictadura, a los que sc adhiricron tambien l a Federacion Nacional de Trabajadores Portuarios de Bogota, Colombia v los gremios argentinos dc transporle. portuarios v telecomunicacioncs. Entretanto dentro dc Chile casi un ccnlenar de personas ponian frn a una huclga de hambre mantenida en la F.mbajada dc Dinamarca, en la capital v en otras ciudades a lo largo del pa's al obtenerse “uno de los objetivos dc nucstra lucha.” l a Huclga de Hambre lermino cuando la corte marcial resolvio cnlrcgar quince cadavercs dc politicos desaparecidos v que fueron cncontrados en una mina ahandonada. afucras dc la capital. Otro ohietivo dc la huelga era obtener informacirtn dc otras 651 personas desaparecidas desde 1975 despucs de haber sido arrestadas por miembros de seguridad dc la dictadura. En Mexico, cxiliados chile nos con la solidaridad del pueblo mcxicano cotnmemoraban tambien. “Rccordamos hoy a nuestro Presidente martir, Salvador Allende, asesinado hacc seis arfos cuando defendia cl Palacio dc la Moneda, asimismo conmcmoramos la memoria dc los miles de patriotas que pcrecieron por defender la Democracia dc Chile.” 

