El Diario Music Reviews

Spain’s influence a factor in Mexican Music

Many people tend to think that Mexican music is strictly related to Spain; although Spain has a great influence we cannot exclude the many other cultures that have also had influence. Mexican music has emerged from three cultures: Spanish, Indian, and African. With these three groups, Mexico has created its own variety of music. Mexican music still retains its own native elements. The Aztecs and Mayans were the two main tribes to influence Mexican music. Many instruments introduced by the Indians exist today and are still being used. The most widely used instruments are drums, clay flutes, whistles, shell trumpets, rattles and scrapers. During the days of the Aztec and Mayan empires, netual fiestas (festivals) were held at which time the tribes would dance to the music played by these instruments. African music has also added its spice to Mexican music. Blacks were brought into Mexico from Cuba and Africa mainly for slave labor. Black influence was considered degrading during the Spanish rule, but gradually was blended into other music, and enriched the culture. Blacks contributed a variety of instruments; marimbas made of wood and percussion instruments. The southern part of Mexico is where one will find the greatest influence of black music. Music with black influence was and is still referred to as being Musica Tropical. Spain has influenced Mexico tremendously and naturally the music has greatly been influenced. Spain introduced string instruments such as the guitar and violin. It was not the contribution of string instruments that have had the biggest on Mexican music, but styles of songs and music. There are three major types of Spanish songs that have been assimilated into Mexican folk music. Romance songs date back to the 1400’s and 1500’s; these songs consisted of a 16 syllable line with an 8 syllable pause. They are still heard today. Coplas, another type of song with four lines consisting of eight syllables are very popular

in Mexico today. The third type of song is called the Decuma, which consisted of one or more stanzas; these songs are centered mainly in Jalisco. From the influence of these three Spanish styles of songs the corrido was born. The corrido is very popular and typical of Mexico. Corridos have their origin in Spanish romance songs. These songs are composed of four 8-syllable lines. The topics of these songs are usually dead heroes or important events in history. Usually the corrido is sung by one or two persons. The background music that accompanies these corridos is usually created by a guitar or a mariachi. There are so many types of songs in Mexico. The more popular songs are rancheras, Boleros. Rancheras are usually very popular on haciendas. Rancheras used to be sung to a “so called” typical orchestra, but today mariachis most commonly accompany them. Northern Mexico is where the nortenas became popular. Nortenas are different from rancheras and boleros. Nortenas are accompanied by Norteno bands. This has its own characteristic instruments, usually three or four: guitar, accordion and a couple of brass instruments. This type of music later was considered Mexico’s first amplified music with the introduction of electric instruments. Nortenas became very well liked in the Southwest, where they were exposed by traveling trovadores. Each regional area such as Texas, New Mexico, California and Colorado all had their own style of nortenas. Texas incorporated the use of homes, New Mexico used horns and California used the Caribbean influence which today is called salsa. The music of Mexico and the Southwest has been briefly noted. In order to fully understand the music, an intense study should be made. There are so many historical factors that have had a tremendous influence on music. With this short summary one can begin to learn what Mexican music is all about.