New UMAS Chairperson Stresses Involvement
Newly elected Chairperson of the United Mexican American Students. Andrea Lucero, elected at the Board of Directors meeting (Sept. 27): stressed the importance of all UMAS members to get involved to battle the blatant racist attacks perpetuated by the C.U. Administration. Ms. Lucero expressed the fact that racist people need to be dealt with. “We can no longer sit passive while those bureaucrats (such as Michael Alexander, Director of Financial Aid) play with our lives’’ stated Lucero referring to the economic problems students face while trying to achieve an education. “We have students who are married supporting families, we have single parents and what dose financial aid do for us? Nothing! They tell you. Yea you have need, but there is no money” she said. Ms. Lucero continued in saying that the Financial Aid Office has repeatedly lied to students with concern to the monies available. They have told students there is no loan money only to find out that a fellow student received $600 in National Direct Student loan.
Lucero, a sophomore journalism major also feels that as UMAS Chairperson, it is her responsibility to direct the organization towards dealing with issues that directly affect Chicanos on campus. Issues such as Dean Briggs (of Arts & Sciences) assuming the position as Director of the Chicano Studies program, and the inefficiency of Financial Aid, are of utmost priority, said Lucero. When asked about future strategies she plans to administer. Lucero said she would like to conduct a survey to ascertain what the Chicano student population wants out of their organization. She also expressed that the UMAS Board of Directors must tighten relations with all FOP student organizations and particularly the Migrant Action Program (MAP). Andrea Lucero concluded by saying: “If we ever arc going to get anywhere, all internal fighting must stop; we as Chicano students must unite and come forth to defeat blatant racism on this campus. We must struggle for those who have yet to come.’’

