HAD seeks influence on Democratic platforms
“We (Latinos) need to make an impact on political party platforms. We want to see deliveries and not its promises,” says Ron Gallegos, State Treasurer of the Colorado Hispanic American Democrats (CO-HAD), in a personal interview with El Diario Monday, Oct. I. CO-HAD is the state chapter of the National Hispanic American Democrats* Organization. Traditionally Latinos in the U.S. have voted consistently democrat, explains Gallegos, “hut Chicano voters have been taken for granted, in lieu of the candidate actually earning our votes.” Gallegos sees the I9Bo’s as the decade of increased minority participation in local as well as federal government. He said, “participation is the new phase to get into the structure to master the tools there. Not to turn the tables on anyone, but to learn the ropes.” Currently CO-HAD is in the preparation stages for a state-wide convention to discuss the increased participation of Latinos in government. The convention will deal with expanding membership in the state chapter and electing delegates for the national HAD convention. HAD expects to make a definite impact on the presidential platforms of the upcoming 1980 election, by uniting all HAD chapters on concurring demands of the candidates. According to Gallegos, “we’re not going to sell out cheaply this time.” HAD is also focusing on the unification of diverse interests by all Hispanos including Chicanos, Puerto Ricans and Cubans. A major goal of HAD is to create a massive voting bloc to attain better representation in governmental position, especially in regards to the Democratic party. Many ideas and stated interests of .HAD seem to be beneficial to Latinos, but if HAD succumbs to the IJ.S. political harness, it could serve to be a detriment in the parity movement. In essence, if HAD does not live up to it’s responsibilities to Latinos, it will hinder progressive efforts and necessities of minorities. Part of HAD’s platform states that it is designed to get input from Latinos across the nation in order to “echo a united political voice on issues.” HAD leaders have met with the Black Caucus in Memphis and together formed a coalition to develop a “common agenda of critical legislation items” in Washington D.C. During this meeting the two groups agreed that “crumbs” must not be fought for each other. Further the coalition feels that with created unity between Blacks and Hispanos more can be gained in salient areas, such as employment. The coalition also agreed to “cooperate efforts on substantive problems including implementing full employment laws, opposing anti-civil rights legislation and seeking to get an accurate census count, as well as fair ment in 1981. According to HAD there are 20 million Latinos in the United States and only representation of one percent. For further information call 492-8816. 
