Castro revamps Mexican relations

Fidel Castro May 79 visit to Mexico could signify the start of better relation between the Communist Island nation and Mexico. Castro who launched the Cuban revolution over Bautista 23 years ago. From Mexico, returned with intent to create better ties, politically as well as economically. Or was Castro's visit to Mexico intended to bring international pressure and recognition on the stance of the economic sanction the U.S imposed on Cuba? Though the Organization of American States (OAS) which included the U.S.

Mexico and other Central American countries imposed the economic blockade against Cuba in 1964 the sanctions were lifted by all OAS members except the United States five years ago. Castro was welcomed so nonchalantly By Mexican President Jose Lopez Portillo, complimented Portillo on his forgein diplomacy concerning the recent oil finds in Mexico especially in light of the recent visit to Mexico by President Carter, Castro further detailed that Mexico's newly found oil riches may be the answer to the social economic problems that face Mexico.

Castro blasted Carter on the Human rights issue which is so widely pushed by Carter. Castro expounded on the issue of undocumented workers entering this country seeking employment, “the bitter and inevitable mutilation of the national territory and underdevelopment imposed by the arrogance and the domination of the United States in the past “Castro was quoted as saying in a Associated Press interview, has contributed to the plight of Mexican citizens exiting Mexico seeking better working standard in the United States.

With the economic sanction lifted by other members of the OSA, the United States continues to refuse economic aid to Mexico which also includes medicines. The major problems which Castro mentioned as being the obstacles in creating better ties with the United States is the continued economic sanction and the presence of a military Naval Base at Guantanamo, which the U.S. refuses to vacate.