Denver Chicanos and supporters reaffirm commitment to el movimiento on Sept. 16
Thanks to the efforts of the Sept. 16, Planning Committee in Denver, this year's commemoration of Mexico's independence from Spain with a tremendous success. The three-day event also featured ideas on our (third world) liberation from the clutches of imperialism. The Planning Committee was rewarded for its efforts by the attendance of more than 4,000 Chicanos who participated in the annual march/rally through downtown Denver on Sept. 14. The fiesta which followed the march lasted until Sunday evening. Sept. 16.
The marchers were met on 16 St. by a Ku Klux Klansman who was counter-protesting the march by what he called “all these welfare recipients.” The Klansman, identified as Fred Wilkins, wore the traditional Klan's white robe and carried a sign which read “White people wake up.” Wilkins’ presence was learned earlier in the day and had it not been for the efforts of a security team, assigned by the Planning Committee, some onlookers speculated that he might not have lived through the day. At one point an altercation broke out between Wilkins and a young Chicana who was expressing her views toward him. Wilkins injured the girl in the chest by poking her with his American flagpole. She countered by giving him a swift kick in the groin which buckled him over and slowed his progress down the sidewalk. The police did nothing to protect the Chicana, but when she reacted to Wilkins’ show of force, the Klansman was escorted quickly away. It seemed like the police and the Klan were countering the celebration together.
A group of Westside residents marched to Auraria campus Sept. 16, carrying a Ku Klux Klan effigy hanging on a cross. The effigy was carried through the crowd at the fiesta much to the approval of ever sum this was done in retaliation of the Klansman who counter protested the march two days earlier. The effigy was burned on a softball field while the crowd shouted “Ku Klux Klan scum of the land!”
Rudolfo "Corky" Gonzales was the main speaker of the day. He spoke of many issues relating to the struggle of the Chicano people and what they must do to overcome the oppression which links our struggle to that of other ethnic minorities. Gonzales finished his inspiring address by reading one of his poems, entitled Raices. Raices, which talks of the Chicanos' ties to this hemisphere and our heritage of struggle. The following is a passage of Raices. Raices.to help the reader capture the mood of the listening audience.
Kttices. Raices. of strength of lore of power from Chile to Peru. From Mexico to Guatemala .From El Rio Bravo to the Southwest From the Southwest—to the East
Floats and banners from over 50 organizations, high schools and student groups were led through downtown by a group of Aztec dancers (Danzantes Aztecas).
Frank Black Eilk of the Society of Native Peoples and Rose Ann Olguin of the Red Sun Dancers, speak of the need of unity amongst Chicanos and Native Peoples. They also urged Chicanos to seek a spiritual understanding with the elements of nature and the universe.

