UFW Campesino murdered in California field

On February 10, Rufino Contreras, a 28-year-old Mexican farmworker was shot to death in a lettuce field by a ranch foreman in California’s Imperial Valley. According to United Farm Workers (UFW) spokeswoman Vicky Lopez, Contreras and several other strikers entered a field to speak with strike-breaking scabs; they were fired upon several times until Contreras was struck in the face. He died enroute to the hospital. Three men were arrested and released on $7,000 bond the next day. To honor Contreras’ memory, 4,000 people marched in the border town of Calexico the day after the murder. On that same day, only 25 scabs dared to enter the fields. President of the UFW, Cesar Chavez, urged the strikers to turn their grief and anger into determination in order to win the strike. Over 7000 farmworkers attended the funeral services for the slain

farmworker as the UFW ordered a one-day moratorium on the strike. The growers, too, announced they would shut down all operations on the day of the funeral to honor Contreras. The basic demands of the striking farmworkers are wage increases of 40% and improvements of their working conditions. In striking, the farmworkers are exposing the hard conditions they are forced to live with. The average yearly income is $5,000 with the work considered to be stoop labor. Faced with the constant exposure to poisons and pesticides, the farmworkers’ life expectancy is only 49 years. Besides the hard living conditions, the farmworker must constantly endure the harassment of the immigration authorities as well as encountering discrimination at every turn. In the Imperial Valley, the lettuce harvest has been crippled extensively since the strike began. Official

estimates reflect the strike as affecting 40% of the nation’s winter lettuce crop with at least 4200 workers joining the UFW walkout. According to growers’ estimates, the strike is responsible for more than $5 million worth of lettuce rotting in the fields. Following a clash between sheriff’s officers and an estimated 1500 strikers, which resulted in the arrest of 14 UFW members, the Imperial Valley growers requested National Guardsmen to be posted. California Governor Jerry Brown refused the request but did make 40 more State Highway Patrolmen available to local law enforcement agencies who have already been reinforced by officers from the U.S. Border Patrol and sheriff’s deputies from the surrounding counties. Ms. Lopez confirmed there had been scattered violence but that the sheriff’s officers present were to blame. “When they arrived, our people were picketing

peacefully and legally in the streets and the officers started firing tear gas cannisters at UFW vice-president Frank Ortiz, whom they know. Frank and the other leaders were trying to get the picketers disbursed. Some of the people did throw the tear gas cannisters back at the deputies and they were arrested,” she stated. The bonds set for the 14 people arrested were at $25,000. Ms. Lopez also stated that the one-day walkout by union members at the 17 non-struck farms which commenced the violent clash was called because those farms that were not being struck were making high profits. The murder of Rufino Contreras has not diluted the fighting spirit of the farmworkers. A 51-year-old woman striker from Salinas said, “Farmworkers have always paid with blood for any improvements we make; now we’re more determined to win the strike,” as reported to Unity newspaper.