Cinco De Mayo, not Cinco De Money

This year Cinco de Mayo commemoration proved to be very successful. Approximately 500 people attended the two-day event, beginning on Friday, May 4, workshops in various areas were held at the University of Colorado Memorial Center Boulder. Evening entertainment was provided where dancers performed and poet Lalo Delgado recited his “Poemas del corazon”. Teatros were also part of the cultural evening entertainment. The following morning a march took place by Chicanos signifying pride and continued resistance against oppression. On route, the people marched to Anthony’s Gardens, a Boulder bar and disco located at the Hilton Hotel to voice their disapproval and the bad taste of Anthony’s Gardens’ exploitative publicity of Cinco de Mayo, in an effort to make profits and promote their business. Anthony’s Gardens held taco eating contests and beer drinking to “celebrate” the Cinco de Mayo. Posters displayed by the bar and disco showed no regard for the important historical event. Instead promotion of exploitation was instilled. Planners of the Cinco de Mayo event, such as UMAS, have demanded a public apology from Anthony’s Gardens but none has been given. In opposition to the exploitative shouts of “Cinco de Mayo Not Cinco de Money” were heard by the

people on the march. The march ended at Lincoln Elementary School where food and drink awaited. People ate menudo, tortillas chile and much more while enjoying the day of solidarity and commemoration of the Mexican people. The ninos were happy and enjoyed riding ponies at the elementary school. After enjoying the food and pony rides at Lincoln, people reunited at the University Memorial Center for workshops. Topics included police repression, student struggles, the land grant issues and others. Education and political awareness was greatly enhanced by these workshops. “San Juan del Pueblo”, a well known band from Pueblo CO. provided the music for the dance held Saturday night. People danced to the cultural music of corridos cumbias and salsa of tradition and also to a little bit of disco of today. Community members, working people and students established closer ties than ever before in planning this event. The efforts of UMAS, IMAGE, Boulder Research Labatories, El Diario and many more organizations and community people attributed to the success of the event. The victory of the Mexican people against French oppression and today’s continued resistance of injustice enable Chicanos to unite, especially on the day of Cinco de Mayo, further fight for liberation.