CAP members “sickened” by director's firing
The only minority members left in the Community Action Program (CAP) say they are “sickened” by the Boulder Commissioners action to terminate the director of that program. As of Oct. 1, Joe Martinez, CAP Director, was relinquished of his job because the commissioners felt that his track record was not good enough. CAP employee, Alex Martinez, said, "Federal audits would show otherwise." There are presently only three minority employees in CAP. "At least 30 percent of CAP clients arc Chicano," says Gary Archuleta, "and more than 50 percent of Boulder's Chicanos fall below the poverty income level." Eleven minorities (all Chicanos) have been fired or forced to resign in CAP and Manpower programs in the last four years. Archuleta considers the firing of Martinez as part of the systemic destruction of CAP by the three Boulder County Commissioners. "They're going to phase out the program and replace it with a social worker," claimed Archuleta. CAP has already lost some of its poverty help programs, including weatherization, aid (with federal monies) for utility bills of people who cannot afford them and the termination of some staff. Archuleta says there are three reasons that he would like to see CAP returned to its private, non-profit status. They are: (1) County Commissioners are not mobilizing resources; (2) Commissioners are not abiding by federal guidelines which require low income people to participate in the decision making process; (3) Federal law requires that CAP provides direct services and advocacy services, instead of just advocacy services that Archuleta believes they are headed for, and what the CAP Ad Hoc Committee recommends. Concerned Boulder residents are now asking the County Services Administration to do a compliance review of "what gives the Boulder County Commissioners the ability to do whatever they want." When asked by El Diario if this was a partially racial issue. Commissioner Murphy explained, "There is no discrimination in Boulder County."