Broken Treaties . . .

El Diario Note: During the last week of January, the House Interior Committee in Washington voted to abolish its subcommittee on Indian affairs. It isn't a secret, that among the anti-Indian bills coming before Congress, some of the ramifications are: to abolish rights to land, fishing, water, natural resources, medical care, cultural programs, tribal government and reservations as a whole. Last month, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed a lower court’s ruling to refrain from abolishment of Indian fishing rights. The Justice Department appealed the High Courts’ decision, even though its co-plaintiff, some Indians tribes, were victorious in this case. But the tribes were not surprised by this development; for it is only the latest in a series of government moves away from its obligation to Indians and into the arms of those who would redefine and abrogate Indian rights. And waiting eagerly to give the first congratulatory embraces was Washington’s elected officials led by Senators Henry Jackson and Warren Magnuson. Once "friends and allies" of the tribes, our senators are now among the most vigorous supporters of the emerging "backlash" against Indian rights. They are certainly the most powerful. Magnuson’s power as head of the House-Senate Conference Committee on Appropriations was dramatically demonstrated on September 15, when he cut three million dollars out of the Interior Department budget. The money is needed for implementation of treaty fishing rights. Magnuson’s immediate target is government-funded litigation on behalf of Indian tribes. But he and Jackson have made it clear that their ultimate aim is abandonment of the federal trust responsibility to Indian people. And they are not running into strong resistance from the Carter Administration. The federal trust responsibility to the Indian, an invention of the U.S. government and its courts, is not an easy concept to understand. It is based

in part on the eighteenth and nineteenth century view that Indian Nations, surrounded by non-Indian settlers, should have the protection of the more powerful U.S. government. Most Indian treaties promised the tribes federal protection from “bad” U.S. citizens, as well as from foreign powers, in return for the tribes’ relinquishment of vast territories. But the idea of a U.S. trust responsibility also stems from the less magnanimous non-Indian assertion that “discoverer” European nations receive legal title to all land previously held by Indians, leaving the native people with no more than the right to occupy their land at the hands of the new sovereign. This convenient doctrine now enables the U.S. government to claim that it holds remaining Indian land and resources in trust for the tribes. This definition of the United States as guardian and the Indians as wards has too often furnished a legal justification for federal policies designed to force Indian assimilation into the lower society. Among the most important Indian property rights which the U.S. has pledged itself to protect are the rights reserved by treaty. Non-Indian hostility towards Indians, in this area as in many areas of the country, is hardly a recent phenomenon. ENGINEERING A CONGRESSIONAL BACKLASH According to law developed in U.S. courts, Congress has the power to override the treaties in this way, as long as it compensates the Indians for the loss of their valuable property rights. Therefore if the Supreme Court refuses to review or to reverse the decision in U.S. vs. Washington, our senators and representatives can be expected to press seriously the legislation, which is a demonstration to voters back home that they have taken to heart their anti-Indian mail. Because it will be presented as a matter of limited local interest, any fishing bill backed by most or all of Washington’s delegation should sail

smoothly through Congress. Such congressional action would have great significance nationwide. It would come at a time when several bills to limit Indian rights and change Indian legal status have been put forward. Many of the pending bills are sponsored by men who represent Washington State, but they are not all simply reactions to the uproar surrounding treaty fishing. Water rights and general jurisdiction bills drafted by Lloyd Meeds, for example, would take away resources and governmental powers which are as important to the existence of all tribes in the U.S. as fishing rights are to the existence of Northwest tribes. Our representatives are finding allies among the delegates from Maine, Michigan, South Dakota, California, New York, and other states where people are annoyed by Indian claims to resources which the non-Indians long ago appropriated for their own use. The Indians’ claims are hardly new; but only in recent years have the tribes had access to the funds and lawyers needed to press their claims successfully. The claims apparently strike at some important interests. Led by people whose racism is thinly disguised under rhetoric which calls for “equal rights and responsibilities” for Indians and amply funded by people who stand to lose financially if the tribes rights are recognized - the anti-Indian lobby is well organized and effective. The opponents of Indian rights would most like to see the federal government stop backing Indian tribes when tribal and state desires conflict. But leaders of the backlash know that it will not be easy to bring most congressional representatives around to their view. It is less than two decades since Congress abandoned as disastrous an attempt to “get out of the Indian business” and came to see “self-determination” as the best solution to the terrible poverty and other grievous problems still facing Indian communities. Also, representatives from states with no substantial Indian populations can usually be counted on to vote their sympathy with Indians when the

opportunity arises. The federal government has long recognized its moral obligation to help and protect the people who paid so dearly for the right to live as a separate people in their own occupied land. The Indian leaders realize, as do their opponents, that it is the U.S. trust responsibility which is at stake in the current controversy regarding Indian rights. Although they have seen the U.S. adopt destructive Indian policies in the past, the Indians fear for the very existence of their still vulnerable people if the government abandons altogether the intermittent efforts it has made to protect tribal rights and resources from the Indians’ greedy and jealous neighbors. On the other hand, there are Indian leaders, particularly in those Indian Nations which have preserved their traditional governments, who believe in and excuse colonial domination of Indian nations. They share the views of the Indian attorney Tim Coulter, who says: “The trust responsibility is an invention of people who thought there was something wrong with the policy whereby the United States simply stole Indian land ... I don’t see any hope in the domestic law setting for the vindication of Indian rights. Indian rights didn’t originate there and they won’t be upheld there. There isn’t much that is important about Indian rights, except their rights as nations . . .” Many Indians consider that the United States’ frequent and continuing disregard of signed treaties can only be properly addressed as violations of international law. Native peoples hope to bring world opinion to the U.S. for repeatedly violating international law and human rights in its dealing with the Indian nations. In the meantime, they would agree with those Indians and non-Indians who feel that all people must continue to demand in all domestic forums that the United States at least honor its existing promises to the Indians. (by permission of Akwasasne Notes, NY, NY.)