Anthony Quinn

Sanchez film perspective

“The Children of Sanchez,” certainly an important dramatization of a Mexican family, in that in viewing the movie - it attempts to bring us in touch with the socio-economic and personal lives of a family living in the biggest Latin American city in the world. Anthony Quinn, (formerly Quintana), stars as the father, Jesus Sanchez, a man of dreams, pride and macho charisma, Quinn’s son Duncan Quinn stars as his oldest son Manuel; Consuelo (oldest daughter) is played by Lupita Ferrer; Marta (daughter), by Lucia Mendez; Roberto (son), Stathis Giallelis. Dolores Del Rio also stars in "The Children of Sanchez” as Abuelita Paguita. Her demanding presence in this flick radiates the screen with a complete passion in the concept of La Familia. "The Children of Sanchez” is produced and directed by Hall Bartlett, based on the novel by anthropologist Oscar Lewis. Music provided by Chuck Mangione.

Jesus Sanchez, 52; Manuel, 32; Roberto, 29, Consuelo, 27; Marta

,25 are the family. The era Is the latter 1950s.

A controversial movie which took about 15 years to film due to a continued censorship battle with the Mexican government, "The Children of Sanchez, ” is currently touring theatres around the nation. In trying to decipher fact or fiction from the movie’s content, I am compelled to say that, although the events took place in the 1950s, The Children of Sanchez could be paralleled to actual contemporary life in urban Mexico. Consider the facts: There is a child born every two minutes in Mexico City — a city of 12 million people. Of those children born, one-half will die from malnutrition before they reach the age of six months. The Sanchez family is shown with having middle-class aspirations of being accepted into inter- and intra-family life. Jesus Sanchez could not have been more satisfactorily portrayed had the actor not been Quinn. Sanchez is a man whose instinct of survival sometimes overwhelms the traditional role that a father plays in busting-ass for his children. His strong—willed character pulls the descending plot into dynamic assumptions and wishful thinking for the audience. The film is anything but peaches and cream. At first the viewers are captivated by sexual overtones and satiric dialogue but gradually begin feeling depressed by constant aggravations and letdowns that the Sanchez family encounters. Who would have believed that someone’s sorrow (and they all have problems) could be so boring. And just when you thought you’d gasp a yawn, Chuck Mangione blares out on his flugal horn with a spirited counter-yawning blast of loud put peaceful jazz. It is quite obvious to me that the soundtrack very definitely carries the movie into wee, but true, triumph. “The Children of Sanchez” is a breakthrough into a foriegn culture-- something that has been attempted since the black-and-white movies. I believe that if anything, this movie underestimated poverty

in urban Mexico - and poverty is even more extreme in the Central American country’s 90,000 villages. Through all the trials and tribulations of each Sanchez offspring there comes a new light. Manuel goes to Los Estados Unidos and leaves his wife and children at home; something that happens frequently with today’s undocumented workers. The oppression of women, (Marta and Consuelo are examples) is also very truthful. Marta is literally dumped and battered. Consuelo rebels. She wants to be a stewardess but

must do so at the price of her womanliness, which she also held as precious. Roberto is a passive rebel. He is being swallowed by the system and seeks only comfort and security, most demandingly from his father, Jesus. Religion plays a tremendous part of the Sanchez family and politics are somebody else’s business. "The Children of Sanchez” is one filmization that should be seen by every sensitive human-being. You may know the facts but it is always good to be reminded, that poverty especially foreign - still exists.