UMAS Tenth Anniversary Series

UMAS Anniv; Still ‘‘getting it on”

Ten years ago the United Mexican American Students (UMAS) at the University of Colorado at Boulder was created due to a special, very unique spirit, the spirit of Chicanismo. This spirit begins as a spark within un hermano or hermana and flourishes into a brilliant flame of dedication and desire to contribute in any way possible for the betterment of other Chicanos. This spirit was tested many times. In the formidable years when UMAS was struggling to achieve the goals the students at that time set forth for themselves, the struggle was immense. But through dedication and hard work and even death, they fought for programs and organizations that would benefit all students. Their efforts helped Chicanos solve problems that were previously answered by simply dropping out of school. As the programs developed, the student populace of UMAS increased. As for the early revolutionaries that fought for progressive change at the University, many didn’t graduate because they were ousted by college officials for their actions, or because the time spent fighting for the needs of the students didn’t allow time for study, resulting in poor grades and eventual withdrawal. With each passing year, the strong personality that was born with UMAS slowly disappeared. Specific incidents also sent potential leaders to the grave

or into hiding for fear of their lives. Long term jail sentences also contributed to the decline of UMAS as a potential campus organization power in this country. But as always, UMAS continually comes back from adversity to pick up

the gun and continue the struggle. The long history of accomplishments, unthought of before, have resulted through the almost continual addicting efforts of Chicanos to bring awareness to anyone who wishes to truly be open to the

world around them. Because openness is change and change is growth and growth is life. Many often label something and have it leave a bad taste in their mouths, but everyone should take it in. The truth within as a part of La Raza will come forth.