Bilingual Education, Still an Issue

For many years now, there has been a great need for Bilingual Education in the Public Schools of Colorado, especially for Chicano students and other minorities. One role Bilingual Education strives to fulfill is to create a better self-image for the Chicano student. Until recently there have been limited resources for such a program to exist, and once resources are made available, retaining such funds is a major problem that arises and in turn creates some problems for Bilingual Education to live up to its full potential. This is not to say that the program is unproductive in its purpose, but merely to say that with effective resources the program can be more pragmatic. “Having students succeed in the educational process is what Bilingual Education is all about,” said Jesus Garcia, who is a Bilingual Educator. “For so long, it has been the practice of Chicano parents and grandparents to raise their children without the knowledge of what education is all about, only because they themselves do not know. Therefore, it is the responsibility of Bilingual Educators to emphasize the importance of education,” says Garcia. Garcia pointed out, “As a Bilingual Educator, it is essential for me to know the language thoroughly. Dialect, grammar and phonetics are all important. Because of this, it is important to have educators who are thorough in this area. Many professionals have agreed that this is a problem area due to the fact that many

teachers and aides are not qualified to do such a task.” Dr. Leonard Baca who is Associate Professor in Education at the University of Colorado, Boulder, feels that lack of Political support is another major problem in the area of Bilingual Education. Baca claims that 2.4 million dollars is divided between 52 school districts. “This money is used only for personal aids and nothing else.” Lack of funds for evaluation has also put a dent in the program. The State of Colorado requires that the Bilingual Education program be evaluated on a yearly basis. Since there are no funds to bring someone in, the schools have professionals within their

own system do this as an alternative. Numerous undergraduate students claim that the Bilingual Education program here at the University of Colorado is poor in the sense that very little emphasis is put on Bilingual Education. Professor Baca hopes that a better program for these students will be available next fall. Getting students in the School of Education a year earlier is an alternative to make the program sufficient. Better training in the schools and new courses are their main goals. There are only a few problems in Bilingual Education. It is hoped that within time these problems will be resolved so that Bilingual Education Can be more effective.