ZOOT SUIT

Los Angeles Zoot Suit a new play by Luis Valdez is about the Sleepy Lagoon Trial and its theme is Chicano pride. The case of the Sleepy Lagoon was a frame-up trial of 22 young Chicanos who were accused of murdering another youth in a gang war killing in 1943. The play opens with “El Pachuco.” El Pachuco represents the young Chicano zoot suiters of the 1940’s. The zoot suiters were victims of white sailors and marines who terrorized the east Los Angeles barrios and who would beat up any Chicano and especially those wearing zoot suits. The zoot suiters were also victims of police repression. These were the so called “Zoot Suit Riots.” In the play, El Pachuco is the symbol of Chicano pride and spirit. He encourages Chicanos to continue the struggle against oppression.

He is dressed in a long coat with wide lapels, a long watch chain, a wide brimmed hat, pegged and pleated pants - the characteristic dress code of the Zoot Suiters. They have been referred to as “baby gangsters" by the Los Angeles press to "greasers”, “descendants of blood thirsty Aztecs” with “minimal mentality” as victims of the U.S. bourgeois media. Stacks of newspapers serve to dramatize the complicity of the press during the courtroom scenes in framing the Sleepy Lagoon defendants. The play also exposes the racism and brutality of the police and courts. The Los Angeles cops are shown beating a defendant who is chained to a chair, and the judge refuses the young Chicano defendants to shower or to keep their appearance clean, to reinforce a more negative image of the pachucos.

Pride and Determination The defendants were kept in jail two years before they were actually acquitted on appeal. Henry Reyna, the leader of the defendants encourages the Chicanos to keep up the struggle. Zoot Suit expresses the dress, manners and style of speech of Chicanos of the 1940’s. A related shortcoming is the depiction of the white lawyer and organizer from the Defense Committee, by the time the defendants are freed, it makes the lawyers and organizers come off as the saviors of the Chicano youths. The play is worth seeing to learn about an important event in the history of oppression and struggle of Chicanos.