Future looks good for Chicano Studies

In 1969 the University of Colorado first established what was then called Mexican American Studies. The fact was recognized that a better understanding of Chicanos entering this university was needed and thus, the birth of Affirmative Action. The Department of Chicano Studies, as it is known today, was formed. During the first few years, support for the Program was very strong from both Chicano faculty and students. The first director of the Program, although temporary, was a woman named Marcella Trujillo. Late 1969 brought the appointment of full-time Director, Salvador Ramirez who created a popular student oriented program supported by all Chicano students on campus as evident in course enrollment figures which were as high as 700, although at that time most courses were cross listed in other departments as well. In 1972-73 the program began to suffer racial attacks and cutbacks by the administration. Broad popular support of minority programs began to drop. The entire campus was affected by racial unrest and during those years Chicano Studies saw the takeover of TB1 and two bombings which killed six Chicano activists; participants in the defense of the Chicano Studies Program and the continued existence of their own student group (UMAS). In 1974 the Chicano Studies Director Salvador Ramirez was involved in a tenure fight with the university administration who would not grant him tenure. At this time he left the Program, hence, Chicano Studies was again without a director. Because of this the Chicano faculty formed the “Executive Committee of Mexican American Studies.” ECMAS was formed by the Chicano faculty and named by Dean Briggs to oversee the administration of the Chicano Studies Program until a new director could be found. The Chicano faculty who constitued the ECMAS group in 1974 tended to express a conservative element in their administration of the Program, resulting in a lack of recognition by Chicano students. Later, when ECMAS named Luis Vallerio as interim director in January of 1975, economic and other related reasons forced him to leave his position after only one day. Again Chicano Studies was left lacking a director; again ECMAS chose to oversee the program through the volunteer time of four ECMAS representatives, Al Ramirez, Rudy Garcia, Tony Lozano and Pete Ossorio. July 1975, Jesus Luna was appointed Director of Chicano Studies with full support of the Chicano student leadership on campus. Fall course enrollment was on the rise with 400-500 students in the eight courses offered by the program, including some cross listed courses. With two full time faculty, Luna, Manuel Naranjo and two part time appointments, it appeared the program was finally accomplishing some stability, considering that up to this point the program had not been allowed this much faculty by the C.U. administration. Chicano Studies director, Jesus Luna introduced the concept of the Comite Consejero as the governing body of the program. Therefore, in fiscal year 1975-1976 the Comite was established, allowing input from students, faculty and community members in the policy making of the Department. Professor Luna also operated the program with an open-door policy

and students began to illustrate renewed patronage, climbing enrollment figures were back up to a 400-500 count. Consequently, Dean Briggs committed two additional full time positions. The search for new faculty members during the fall of 1976 and spring of 1977 resulted in the hiring of Tomas Martinez. Meanwhile, personal problems forced Luna to vacate his position on short notice, naming Professor Martinez as interim Director, according to Comite ByLaws for a one year appointment. Jose Cuellar was appointed as Chicano Studies Director in 1977 although he left the program on a one year leave of absence in March of 1978 At that time Al Ramirez, Chairman of the Social Personality area of the Psychology Department at C.U. and representative to the UMAS Board of Directors, stepped in as new program director in order to prevent the other alternative which would have resulted in the take over of the Department by Dean Briggs. Presently, Professor Ramirez remains Director and has brought much stability to the program. Course enrollment is up to a count of 300, an all time low suffered during the last two semesters. Professor Ramirez has also done much work for the construction of a Chicano Studies Major and is recruiting two additional Chicano faculty through joint appointment. These joint appointments have brought experience and expertise to Chicano Studies as evident in the fine performance and dedication illustrated by the two newest members of the faculty. Cordelia Candelaria and Salvador Rodriguez Del Pino who only began teaching at C.U. three weeks ago. Professor Del Pino came here from the University of California in Santa Barbara where he taught literature, Spanish and Chicano culture since 1971. He was first attracted to Boulder when he saw the great potential of the Chicano Studies program and has now received a three year joint appointment with the Spanish Department. Del Pino’s plans for the program include securing the Chicano Studies major and seeing the program, “become a bona fide Department with more faculty and tenure.” Del Pino has already been appointed as a representative to the Comite Consejero where he hopes to apply his past experience in Public Relations to increase enrollment for Chicano Studies and attract monies for research, events and overall community support. The student-faculty relation appears to be a priority for Professor Del Pino as he states, “I want to make the students realize that I am here for their sake, this is my line of work.” He is looking forward to a successful three years, “I think I will be useful here and I will contribute as much as I can.” Over the past ten years Chicano Studies has undergone many serious setbacks, but has managed to recover through support of the students and some faculty members. For the future, present Director Al Ramirez states that in the beginning many believed that Chicano Studies would not have a long life expectancy. Professor Ramirez believes, “Chicano Studies is here today and will not only survive, but grow and develop into a strong part of this university. The crucial element will be the support of the Chicano community; students, faculty and staff, looking at the working force we now have behind the program, I can say that the future looks good."