Land struggle grows and continues in El Valle
The arrival of John T. Taylor in the San Luis Valley in early 1960 would prove to have drastic effects on the local communities. For Valle residents, the exchange of $497,798 for some 77,534 acres of land February 15, 1960, between Taylor and the Costilla Land Company marked the end of a way of life and the beginning of a struggle for survival, although the warranty deed of the transaction included provisions to protect the 116-year-old tract's common usage by la Gente. In part, the deed recorded in March of that year stated that all of the land negotiated is “subject to claims of the local people by prescription or otherwise to rights to pasturage, wood, and lumber and so-called settlement rights in, to and upon said land, . . However, these words were quickly Ignored by Taylor who immediately fenced off the last portion of the one-million acre Sangre de Cristo Grant; denying the people the firewood, grazing pastures, and forests and lakes for hunting, fishing, and recreation-- basic necessities of existence. It's not that la Gente didn’t resist. Fences were cut, bridges and other barriers were built and destroyed, men were beaten, shot, arrested, tried, and convicted. But the might of wealth and politics prevailed over the humility: of the being. In July, 1960, three residents, Mariano Vigil, Celso Maestas, and Andrew Lobato were issued a temporary re-: straining order by U. S. Judge Alfred: Arraj based on a $10,500 suit by Taylor charging that they grazed their sheep on his land ‘whenever and wherever they pleased,’ took timber from the land and once started a fire. In 1961, Vigil and Maestas were fined $5O for contempt of court, with a warning from Arraj that if they violated a court order preventing them from trespassing and grazing their sheep on 'Taylor’s land,’ they would be sent to jail. In August, 1960, Taylor filed a second suit against 313 residents of San Pablo, San Luis, and Chama asking that he be registered as sole owner of the Mountain Tract, contrary to the documented history of the land. Pistol Whipped On Thanksgiving Day, 1961, Gilbert Medina, his brother Eddie (whose father owns adjoining property to Taylor), and Thomas Rael were looking for a stray heifer, when they were approached by Taylor’s men with guns drawn. The three Chicanos were pistol whipped and ‘‘forced to walk several miles where they met Taylor in a truck,” according to court testimony.
At the time, Taylor was quoted as saying, "You should have killed them, not brought them back here.” The following day, when Taylor and his henchmen were apprehended and jailed, several hundred residents gathered at the courthouse to express disgust with Taylor.
In June, 1964, U.S. District Judge Hatfield Chilson ruled that "Spanish Americans cannot make claims on land today on the basis of old Mexican law,” contradicting the 1848 treaty between the United States and Mexico, a later 1860 congressional decision, and more importantly, the 117 year legacy of life,
This article first appeared in La Cucaracha newspaper of Pueblo, Colo., in 1977. In better understanding the land struggle in southern Colorado today, the content of the article is still pertinent.
Taylor and his helpers were later found guilty of assault and battery, and fined $3OO each in district court at Conejos, Colo., In May, 1963, then Gov. Steve Me Nichols refused to send the Colorado National Guard to the Valle at the request of Taylor's lawyer, Gordon Rowe.
The following year, Chilson ruled that the Valle’s residents had not established their right to graze cattle or cut wood on Taylor’s land. This decision was upheld in 1967 by a three-judge panel that gave unanimous affirmation to rejecting the claims of the Gente to their basic rights as granted
On October 6, 1965, an agreement between Taylor and the Costilla County Board of Commissioners gave the county the right to build a public road--Whiskey Creek Pass Road-- across Taylor’s ranch. According to this agreement, the county had 13 years to construct the road, or it would relinquish the claim to this right-of way. To date, nothing has been done regarding this agreement. Valle Gente believe the agreement was never intended to be honored, citing the fact that what information about this agreement has been made available to them has been minor and only in recent years. (The next article in this series will deal more intently with this agreement since it is scheduled to terminate this year.) In the meantime, fences and barricades continued to bar la Gente from their land. Fences Removed In the summer of 1974, under pressure from the young people during an election campaign, the county commissioners and the sheriff, accompanied by the community, removed the barricades from the Mountain Tract roads--an act that inspired jubilation comparable to celebrations ordinarily seen in San Luis on the festival of Santa Ana, the patron saint of the village. In response, Taylor again turned to the courts where an order was issued enjoining the sheriff, Ernesto Sandoval, and the county commissioners from so much as stepping on Taylor’s ranch. The order remains in effect today. It is well known that the Gente del Valle have very deep feelings of anger, disgust, frustration that border on hatred towards Taylor. Most feel he is insane with power, a racist whose selfishness is strangling their lives. In Oct., 1975, Taylor was shot in the ankle while sleeping on the ranch, one solid indication of the contempt the community holds for him. Some say he was shot by disgruntled hunters he had argued with; some say he was shot by Gente who only regretted that they failed to kill him; still others say he’s the type to shoot himself if he could scheme some benefit from it. Many Gente in the area deplore violence, but it would be virtually impossible to find anyone in el Valle with any sympathy for Taylor. Perhaps a 1974 interview published in the Raleigh, N. C. NEWS AND OBSERVER, best identifies Taylor. Referring to la Gente in el Valle he said, ‘They know they’re not equal, mentally or physically, to a white man and that’s why they stick together so.”
“Jack the ripoff” says the sign on the effigy, symbolic of Jack T. Taylor, who in 1960 moved to El Valle de San Luis and totally disrupted the lifestyle of many residents. The dummy was hung outside the Federal Courthouse on 16 St. and Stout in downtown Denver, where, this month. Sheriff Ernesto Sandoval of Costilla County took Taylor to court for defamation of character.

