Open Letter to Pres. Carter.

February 8, 1979 The Honorable Jimmy Carter President of the United States White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Carter: We are writing this letter regarding your meeting in Mexico City with Mexican President Jose Lopez Portillo on February 14-16. We feel that your visit will go a long way toward developing better cooperation between both countries. As Chicano elected officials who represent a sizable Mexican American population in the State of Colorado, we feel it is essential that we go on record as supporting your efforts in this regard. We are aware that the issue of undocumented workers in the United States is a volatile question that has no simple solution. We feel confident that you and President Portillo will discuss this problem, and its broad implications to both countries. Hopefully, you will come to some consensus. In 1977 you presented a plan to the Congress to address possible solutions to this question. We support the portion of that plan that would grant resident status to immigrants who have been in this country for five years or more by January 1970. While we generally support temporary working status for those who have been here for less than five years, we feel that in view of your Human Rights Position it is essential that these workers not be denied medical social services if they need it. The last portion of the package you offered to Congress dealt with fines up to $l,OOO for employers who hired undocumented workers. We feel that such a proposal could cause severe problems in employment for many Chicanos in this country, many of whom can trace their ancestry back over two hundred years in the southwest. We feel that it places an unfair burden on some employers, and in some respects may encourage some businessmen not to hire individuals who look hispanic. A recent proposal to build a wall along the U.S. and Mexico border can serve no real solution to the real problem that is forcing immigrants to migrate north from Mexico. The issue is unemployment. It has been estimated to be as high as 50% in some places in Mexico. We believe that it is in the best interests of the United States to involve itself in contributing to the economic stability of Mexico. Lastly, the United States government now knows that Mexico has proved oil reserves of 50 billion barrels, probable reserves of 157 billion more, and possible reserves of another 100 billion. This is potentially more than Saudi Arabia and could supply U.S. energy needs for 40 years at current rates of consumption. We therefore submit that the United States should work very closely with Mexico, respecting the unique cultural, historical, and political differences of that country, to develop a long range plan that will be to the benefit of both countries. We wish you success in these efforts and offer our support. Sincerely, Richard Castro, State Representative Laura M. DeHerrera, State Representative Leo Lucero, State Representative Federico Pena, State Representative George M. Chavez, State Representative Don Sandoval, State Senator Paul Sandoval, State Senator Polly Baca Barragan, State Senator