U.S. Supreme Court says yes to minority quotas
The U.S. Supreme Court, on June 27, ruled that racial quotas are constitutional and employers with no proven history of discrimination may provide special job preferences to minority workers. In the aftermath of the Allen Bakke decision - which said that racial quotas could not be used for special admissions into educational institutions - this decision could have completely destroyed affirmative action had the justices ruled the other way. The case appeared last year when Brian F. Weber, a white male worker in Louisiana, challenged the Kaiser Aluminum plant, saying it “discriminates against whites because half the positions in an apprenticeship were reserved for non-white males and women. Weber claimed that because he had more senority than some black workers that he should have been accepted to the program in which he was turned down. Weber, who based his “reverse discrimination” suit on the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title 6), had won his case in two other court rulings: A federal Trial Court and the sth Circuit Court of Appeals. Weber, 32, who makes about 1B,000 per year, works in Kaiser Aluminum’s Gramercy plant, about 25 miles north of New Orleans. In this general area, the total work force is 40 percent Black, yet Black people make up only 18 percent of the work force. Up until the birth of affirmative action in the 1960’5, Blacks only made up less than 10 percent of the plant’s payrollees. Weber’s basis for reverse discrimination was founded on the age-old principle of equal rights, regardless of race. In a statement to the New York Times in March of this year, Weber stated, “If I do anything wrong, I should be made to pay for what I do, but not for what someone did 150 years ago.” He may have been right, had he not already reaped the benefits.
Mainstreaming minorities into a capitalistic society is difficult because even affirmative action cannot reimburse Chicanos for the constant discrimination; the Native American for lost land; or the Black worker for slavery.