Arson kills AIM leader’s family

A fire and explosion at the home of John Trudell, National Chairman of the American Indian Movement (AIM), on the Duck Valley Indian Reservation of Northern Nevada, took the lives of his three children, wife, mother-in-law and left one man hospitalized with smoke inhalation. The explosion, which occurred on February 12, left Trudell’s wife Tina Manning Trudell, Leah Manning (Tina’s mother), Richard Star (five year old son), Sunshine (three year old daughter), and Eli Changing Sun (14 month old daughter), victims of what is still an unresolved atrocity. Tina Trudell was one of the principle organizers on the Duck Valley Reservation in efforts to save their water resources from exploitation. Water from the Wild Horse Reservoir, located on the Duck Valley Reservation, has been a subject of interest to the U.S. Department of Interior which, according to one source, lists it among its top ten projects for development by industrial interests outside the reservation. John Trudell, who is also organizer of the Minnesota Citizens Review Commission on the F.B.I. and Coordinator of the Leonard Peltier Defense Committee, was in Washington, D.C. conducting a round-the-clock vigil at the Supreme Court, awaiting a decision from the Supreme Court to review the Peltier case, when he was notified of the tragedy. (Peltier was convicted of killing two F.B.I. agents on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota two years ago.) The following statement was made in a Press Release issued February 14, 1979, jointly by several Indian and Human Rights groups. “We the American Indian Movement, Minnesota Citizens Review Commission on the F.B.I., Women of All Red Nations, and the International Treaty Council have called for an independent investigation of this fire for we believe that the F.B.I., which has threatened Trudell and his family on several occasions, cannot and should not be allowed to do this investigation. We believe this attack was politically motivated not only because of John Trudell’s work with AIM, but because Tina Trudell was one of the principal organizers of efforts on the Duck Valley Reservation to save their water. This attack on Trudell’s family follows the same pattern of threats and murders that were carried out against Jeannette Bissonnette and Anna Mae Aquash, active members of the American Indian Movement. The American

Indian Movement is calling for a national red alert of all its members, in what seems to be an escalation of the war against Indian people to swindle the Indians of energy resources and water, following the critical situation now facing the United States of America after the fall of the Shah of Iran. We ask the people of conscience to gather on the Duck Valley Paiute Reservation to show national solidarity in support for Arthur Manning and John Trudell. Burial services were held on February 20, 1979 at the Presbyterian Church in Owyhee, Nevada, with Leonard Crow Dog and Philip Deer, spiritual leaders of the American Indian Movement, officiating.” In a phone interview, Norris Cole (from Elko, Nevada), a Bureau of Indian Affairs representative who is apparently handling all official press statements regarding the Manning/Trudell residence stated that “there was no final official report on the fire or its causes now available.” However, he further stated that preliminary findings of the fire investigative team at the site had revealed that the fire had started in the “vicinity of the fireplace” inside the house. When asked whether or not an explosion had occurred as early reports had related, Mr. Cole replied, “An explosion effect could have been caused by many things, for example, windows or doors being blown outward could make a loud noise.” Mr. Cole did not know when a final investigative report would be available. Donations to help the Manning/Trudell Family should be sent via registered mail to: c/o Winona Manning or John Callahan Box 366 Owyhee, Nevada 89832 and for more information call: Clyde Bellecourt (612) 379-1550; or John Trudell (702) 757-3772.