J.B.C. Cuts

The Joint Budget Committee (JBC) is a six member committee of the General Assembly; three members are chosen from the House of Representatives and three from the Senate. The members of the JBC are: William Hughes, Chairperson-R; Ruth Stockton-R; Robert DeNierR; Betty Neale-R; Jean Marks-D; James Kadlecek-D. The proposed cuts for September 1979 to the Boulder Campus include 430 (FTE) students, 132 Faculty positions, with a planned reduction of 72 cuts within the next year; there will also be a drastic reduction in financial aid. FTE signified "full time equivalency" which means any student carrying 30 hours or more during one academic year. Over a ten-year period this planned reduction will deny 5000 students the opportunity to receive a degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder. The proposed reduction of 204 Faculty positions will eliminate 17% of the Campus' faculty and necessarily reduce the number and range of courses offered to students. A student body of 98% of the current size will then only have 83% of the current faculty providing educational services. Thus, you can expect for entire programs or departments to be eliminated. The reduction in financial aid will also have a negative effect on Boulder Campus students. Federal financial aid to the Boulder Campus for 1979-80 has already been reduced from over $2,000,000 to $400,000. With over 40% of Boulder Campus students currently receiving some form of financial aid, a reduction in state aid may put a degree from CU-Boulder beyond the reach of low-income and middle-income families. Particularly hard hit will be disadvantaged students. According to data from the Colorado Commission on Higher Education (CCHE) the University of Colorado at Boulder has provided college educations for nearly 50 percent of the disadvantaged students in Colorado who have received college degrees. It is therefore important to understand that the JBC is being used as a tool to phase out all minority programs. It is a historical fact that when financial cuts come down from the state, it is always minorities that get shoved out first, or "the less established departments. ” It is the responsibility of all minority students and financial aid recipients to organize and demand for our "Right TO A QUALITY Education." If we do not organize ourselves to combat these conservative racists, then we can only BLAME ourselves for not struggling to provide the opportunity of an education to our brothers, sisters, and children.