UMAS' Perseverance

This is the second of a three-part series concerning the history of UMAS on the Boulder campus. This historical resume is important knowledge for University Chicanos because history often repeats itself, and in projecting future UMAS strategies we must have a complete understanding of our (UMAS) foundation.

Mentioned in the previous issue, the United Mexican Students exist as a result of concerned Chicanos who believed in fighting for self-determination and the right to an equal education. Just as they did then, we must be prepared to do the same now because if we don’t look after our own programs, who will? In order that we may better understand how we as UMAS students should direct our organization, a historical view of UMAS and the issues that affected UMAS must be analyzed. Financial Aid Issue The system knows that the best way to hinder or discourage minorities is through financial problems. They have existed ever since Chicanos directly became involved in the pursuit of higher education. Take note that financial aid has been in existence since 1959 and wasn’t made available to the Chicano people until 1968. In 1969, 21 UMAS students took over Regents in the hope that the financial aid office would rectify their bureaucratic problems. The demands made by the UMAS students were to hire more personnel to insure that awards be issued on time. At that time the management of the Financial Aid office was insufficient in providing stipends (checks) on time. The number of people waiting usually ranged in the 100’s . All 21 UMAS students were arrested.

Among the 21 UMAS students arrested was Ricardo Falcon who upon graduation became Tutorial Coordinator for the UMAS/E.O.P- program from 1969-1971. Famous for his statement “we ought to get it on’’ and instrumental in leading the second Regent take-over in 1972, though in 1971 he was barred from campus. Falcon knew through his dealings with the administation as Tutorial Coordinator that compromising and reasoning never got the organization anywhere. For that reason, the UMAS students found it necessary to take over the Regents building. In 1971, Falcon was fired and barred from campus because of his dealings with political issues on campus. The issues Chicanos were directly involved with were at the time: 1 ) Financial Aid, 2) Reverse Discriminaton charge concerning the “Disadvantaged Scholarship Referendum” which previously read the “Minority Scholarship Referendum” 3) Opposition to Joe Coors who sat on the Board of Regents. Coors opposed women’s rights, minorities' right to an education and also aided the Denver Police Dept, by supplying armored plated police helicopters. Falcon agressively voiced his opposition against Joe Coors and his “racist brewing company.” The take-over of Regents in 1972 resulted because of the same reasons they had in 1969 (the administration's constant incapabilities to provide an efficient Financial Aid office). Although banned from campus, Falcon directly became involved in the take-over which lasted 4 days with the administration (supposedly) succumbing to the demands of UMAS. Shortly later in the year 1972 on his way to a La Raza Unida Conference in El Paso, Texas, Ricardo Falcon was shot and

killed in Orogrande, New Mexico by Perry Brunson, a gas station attendant. The attendant demanded them to pay for the water they used when their radiator overheated "water is too expensive in this part of the country” Brunson said. Because of the constant transitions of students on campus, it is possible for a breakdown of communication to arise between students, faculty, and staff. TB-1 Takeover We as Chicano students on this campus have an obligation to make sure our faculty and staff comply to the students. We must be aware that there are those individuals who would like to use our programs for their benefit without giving any regard to the students. As in the case of the TB-1 takeover there were those individuals who dared to use UMAS for their own personal gains. The directors at that time were Jose Franco and assistant director Paul Acosta, who were charged and found guilty for the misappropriations of UMAS funds. The allegations made towards the two directors were: 1) excessive tardiness and excessive absences; 2) using UMAS funds for self-indulgence- for example, using UMAS monies to have parties, using UMAS monies to take ski trips to Aspen; and 3) using UMAS monies to provide an airfare for a particular student who wished to investigate an elitist college in Washington D.C. for her own career achievement. The UMAS students felt that these individuals were not working for the students nor towards the best interest of UMAS E.O.P. After one month of negotiations with the directors, the students became very disillusioned with the decision not

to comply with their demands. Again, the students were faced with taking matters into their own hands. The result was the takeover of the TB-1 building located between the Women's Gym and Sewall Hall dormitory. In May of 1974, a total of 29 UMAS students barricaded themselves in the TB-1 building (eight upstairs, 21 downstairs as well as supporters who continuously gave support outside the building). The takeover terminated after 19 days when the directors realized that the students would continue the struggle until victory was obtained. They both resigned officially during the fourth UMAS hearing where the student allegations were addressed (after the take-over). Franco and Acosta unofficially resigned before the take-over ended. When the take-over was first initiated, it was an internal matter between Chicano students and Chicano staff. Nevertheless, it became a police issue when an individual took it upon himself to request, from the police, that the Chicanos in the building be removed. From that point on, the law enforcement heavily and continuously kept the occupants and building under

surveillance. Although the occupation of TB-1 was an important success, it was also a very costly one. On May 27, during the third day of the occupation, an explosion occurred at Chautauqua park killing: Reyes Martinez, Chicano lawyer committed to helping the poor in Colorado and New Mexico; Neva Romero, UMAS student directly involved with bilingual bicultural issues; and Una Jakola, an Anglo psychology and sociology tutor for the UMAS-EOP Program. The local news media portrayed the explosion as one of terrorism. The authorities speculated that the 3 victims were assembling bombs to commit some type of terrorist act. Within 48 hours, on May 29, at Pudlick Liquors, a second explosion occured; this time killing 4 Chicanos. The Chicanos involved in this bombing were: Francisco Granado, former UMAS President and Crusade for Justice member who was deeply involved in the Chicano movement and instrumental the 1972 Regent occupation; Heriberto Teran from Lardo, Texas, poet and UMAS student; Francisco Dougherty, also from Texas and friend of Teran who was planning to enter the UMAS-

EOP summer program that same year; and Antonio Alcantar, UMAS student and Crusade for Justice member who survived the tragedy suffering compound injuries for life. Again the authorities portrayed the bombing incident as if they (the victims) were on their way to commit a terrorist act. The true story of how or why these incidents occurred may never be known, however, we must be aware that these victims were directly involved in the Chicano movement and that they devoted their lives to the betterment of Chicano people. It is very ironic that within 48 hours, 7 people were victims of what the authorities call “insufficient knowledge to arm bombs.” Is it possible that at two different occasions, two different cars full of Chicanos could of blown themselves up? Could it be possible that authorities could monitor conversations ranging further than a city block? Lastly, do the authorities have suicide sqauds who specialize in eliminating “trouble makers” (political activists)? These are questions we should address ourselves with to determine what really happened. By studying history, we can

learn many lessons from the past. One lesson to be drawn from our history is that the students of the UMAS organization have the power to make any changes necessary when in the best interest of the program. We must realize that, if at any time, our program falls prey to opportunists and UMAS-EOP no longer serves the needs of the students, we the students are to blame. As UMAS students we have an obligation to contribute what we can to insure that our brothers and sisters will have an opportunity of a University education. Another valuable lesson learned is that the administration and the ultra right-wing conservatives will not be happy until we are eliminated from campus. Today, we face financial aid cutbacks, full-time employee position cutbacks, EOP credit cutbacks, etc. Be aware, just as in 1969 some of the same issues are still prevalent. It is no accident these obstacles exist, but rather they are tactics to keep us oppressed. Get involved and help your programs. QUE VIVA UMAS!