FORUM
Boulder group opposes Coors completely
MAINTAIN THE CU TRADITION! BOYCOTT COORS BEER! STOP THE SALE OF COORS ON CU!

Under the guise of "freedom of choice" the UMC Board voted Monday. Sept. 24. to propose to the UCSU Executive Council that Coors be sold again on CU campus-specifically in the UMC after ten years of boycotting this product. In 1969 the CU student body was told to boycott Coors beer because of discriminatory and fascist-like business tactics. The CU tradition of supporting workers and people who are oppressed and exploited by capitalists like Coors is now in jeopardy. Freedom of choice, they say! What a dishonest way to disguise lack of concern or the exploited Coors plant workers. What a dishonest way to disguise the fact that profits are far more important than human dignity! What the UMC Board has said is that they are tacitly supporting and encouraging Coors and his cohorts to continue his: I) unfair labor practices which undermine the democratic principles of open shop: 2) discriminatory hiring practices; 3) right-wing political activities (which, in fact, help support such reactionary groups as the John Birch Society; 4) unfair militaristic working policies such as the lie detector test which asks irrelevant personal questions about one's sex life, political life, and views on unions, and the fact that he insists on the right to search and seize "his" workers, their lockers, person, lunch boxes, personal clothing, automobiles, or any other personal effects at the company's whim: 5) perverse compulsion to bust unions because they threaten his complete control of the company. Coors, an admitted advocate of the John Birch Society, cares nothing for the people who work for him nor for the students on this campus. When he was a CU Regent, Coors was anti-student. anti-minority. pro-Vietnam War, and supported a militaristic foreign policy. In fact, the Coors' porcelain company produces parts for nukes! Coors also contributed considerably to the campaigns of the ultraconservative legislators of this state who were enemies of the Equal Rights amendment. He has also fought vigorously against hi-lingual education and is proud of it. As the largest private employer in Colorado, the Coors Company sets an example to other businesses in violating the dignity of workers, and thus violates the dignity of us all. One of the myths about the Coors boycott is that it is a cause initiated and supported only by minority people. In fact, a majority of workers at Coors arc not minority. When it comes to making profits, the rich, like Coors, aren't selective about whom they will discriminate against. Some of you may be fooled that Coors has since settled and made "peace" with minority groups, unions, and women. He is slick enough to know that he can always hire a few "token" people to help "cover up" his true feelings. But we know better. We here at CU won't be fooled. Today. Coors is still up to their old tricks. This company has currently been selling kegs to sororities, fraternities, and dorms at a cheaper rate to make money and encourage students to believe that Coors really cares about students and their meager pocketbooks. What Coors is really doing is just solidifying a profitable market for future sales. What the UMC Board is doing is just helping Coors exploit another unsuspecting market. Some people naively say that preventing Coors from selling beer in the UMC is forcing CLI students to make a political decision. Come now! Allowing Coors to sell beer in the UMC is making one of the most blatant political decisions ever made by the CU campus. While many campuses across the country are forcing their administrations to ban the sale of S. African kugerands and forcing them to withdraw all South African investments because of the brutal South African practice of apartheid, some CU students believe that the sale of Coors is not comparable and is quite harmless. After all, if you want to boycott Coors beer - "that's your problem" they say. If the UMC Board and the Food Manager of the UMC were really concerned with "freedom of choice." then they would place every single kind of beer available on the UMC food market. Isn't that freedom of choice? How ironic that Coors beer is the only one that the UMC Board feels will insure students their "freedom of choice." We believe that the students on the campus will be much more responsible than was the UMC Board. Coors beer is not pasteurized. Coors beer is made with ìRocky Mountain (Rocky Flats) water.î These familiar sayings are not well known only on the CU campus. The Coors boycott has spread nationally. In fact, the boycott has grown considerably in Texas, Arizona, California, and other states. You may have noticed how Coors has recently developed a widespread advertising campaign on TV and other media. This is because the boycott has hurt them: this is because the American people are learning quickly about Coors and their practices. "Make it Coors" -- make it Coors' responsibility to ultimately respect the democratic rights of his workers: "Make it yours" — make it yours" — make it your goal to insure equality for all workers and prevent Coors from imposing his fascist beliefs on us. "Make it ours" - make Coors believe that we the people, are the makers of history: we alone decide our destinies. DEFEAT THE PROPOSED REFERENDUM Concerned Students, Faculty and Staff of CU

