In Brief
NICARAGUA - Por mas de dos semanas los Sandinistas han mantenido cercada la fortaleza que protege a Somoza y la Guardia Nacional übicado en pleno centro de Managua. Unas 1500 personas incluyendo soldados de la Guardia Nacional han sido estimados muertas como resultado de los enfrentamientos. Cpmo producto de la falta de distribucion de alimentos, la gente ha salido a la calle y los supermercados y pequenos negocios han sido desmantelados por estos. Fn su ofensiva final, los Sandinistas han avanzado lentamente hacia la principal fortaleza de la Guardia Nacional en Managua y mantenido bajo control la ciudad de Leon y Matagalpa. Unos 3000 norteamericanos estan tratando de salir fuera de Nicaragua protegidos por marinos norteamericanos y' soldados de Somoza. DENVER - In mid June, Chicano residents from Pueblo rallied at the Federal Building in protest of federal intervention at neighborhood health centers. Protesters feel that HEW chief Webb is interfering in local issues affecting the health centers which can seriously threaten health services. HEW wishes to elect officials such as county commissioners or city council members to be on the governing board of the Pueblo Neighborhood Health Centers Inc. Apparently HEW feels that the governing board must broaden its representation. LAFAYETTE COLORADO - Utility fees and sewer service charges have been increased by the city council in mid June. Sewer rates will rise about 5 percent. Water costs will also go up for the Lafayette community. MEXICO - U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger has publicly appeared in total support of the former Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, of Iran. Kissinger indicated a strong opposition to the U.S. for not allowing political asylum to the Shah, “A longtime ally”. Kissinger also found time to fly to Mexico to greet the Shah personally and make several public speeches. The reason for the U.S. not granting asylum to the Shah is a question of extensive debate. Nevertheless, the U.S. interest does not lay on the Shah, but more so of who is in control of the strategic and oil rich land. HOUSTON - Within the next decade the census will show that Hispanos are becoming the largest minority in the United States. Political power through the Hispanic vote is growing. Zavala County Judge Jose Angel Gutierrez said the new political clout of the Hispanic community became manifest during the recent elections in Texas. He also said “we must continue to assert our independence and not let ourselves be taken for granted any more”. SOWETO SOUTH AFRICA - Approximately 6000 black united to commemorate the uprising of the people in 1976 against the White-minority rule. People cried “Amanda awethu” “the power is ours”. The uprising occurred when blacks protested white rule and dominance. About 700 persons died in the uprising. SAN SALVADOR - The Popular Revolutionary Block, a coalition of workers and of poor people have allegedly kidnapped Salvadoran industrialist, Rafael Nieto Alvarez. The Popular Revolutionary Bloc is demanding social reform from the dictatorship of President Romero.

