Chicanes and Indians fight to defend land
Anti-nuclear struggle in the Southwest

Courtesy of La Unidad Newspaper, San Francisco, CA.

Mount Taylor, NM—A rising part of the anti-nuclear pollution struggle is being waged by Native American and Chicano people throughout the Southwest and Northwest. These oppressed peoples are fighting to protect their lands, natural resources and personal safety from the ominous dangers of uranium mining. A large protest gathering took place from April 28-30 here at Mount Taylor near Albuquerque one of four mountains considered sacred by the Navajos. It was called by the American Indian Environmental Council. Navajos, Hopi elders and former uranium miners spoke out. They called for unity of Native Americans, Chicanos and other progressive people to fight the big U.S. energy monopolies which are plundering and ruining their lands. The speakers stressed that this is a vital part of the struggle to defend Indian sovereignty and the national rights of the Chicano people. A Chicano at the gathering added, “It is especially important to build the anti-nuclear movement in the Southwest at this time when the nuclear industry plans on doubling its nuclear development in the next five years.” National oppression and the search for uranium From the beginning, the nuclear industry took its heaviest toll of all on the oppressed nationality peoples. What is happening to the Native Americans and Chicanos of New Mexico is a shocking example. After World War 11, the U.S. ruling class began to build up an enormous nuclear weapons arsenal to intimidate the world and retain U.S. dominance. This required huge amounts of uranium, so in 1951 the U S. Atomic Energy Commission launched a “uranium incentive program” for energy companies willing to find and develop uranium resources. Corporations like Exxon, Gulf Oil, Kerr-McGee, ARCO and others turned their greedy eyes toward the Chicano and Indian lands in search of the profitable mineral, for this is where most of the country’s uranium is located. Today, two-thirds of all U.S. uranium mines and mills are on Indian lands, with others on land grants that once belonged to the Chicanos, such as the Cebolleta and San Mateo grants in New Mexico. The biggest sources of uranium are on the Navajo reservation here, the Spokane reservation in Washington and the Oglala territory in South Dakota. The Navajo land was taken over much like the others. In January of 1977, the federal Department of the Interior leased 400,000 acres of Navajo land to Exxon for uranium exploration, without the approval of the Navajos. The Navajos got less than 1 Vo of the ore’s value in payment, while the capitalists got a source of tremendous profits. Living and working in radiation The uranium miners are mostly Chicanos and Native Americans, who until recently were paid only $1.60 an hour. Their work is extremely dangerous, and the companies totally disregard their safety. According to one resident of the Navajo reservation, “Thirty minutes after blasting, the miners are sent back ) into the mines. It takes a long t time for the dust to settle. They are not given any protective ' clothing or masks. There is no t ventilation or drinking water. / The miners are forced to drink water that seeps through the walls of the mines, contaminated with radioactive particles." By 1978, 25 Navajo miners had died of lung cancer caused by exposure to radioactive materials. Another 20 with lung cancer have less than a 5% chance of being cured. The widows and families of the dead miners receive no compensation. The uranium milling process has left another danger piles and piles of radioactive rock tailings (the remains after uranium is extracted). Some 60 million tons sit on Chicano and Indian land here, polluting the water and killing many Navajo sheep and cattle from radiation. Many Indians and Chicanos actually used the tailings to build their homes, because the companies and government never warned them of the danger. Oscar Sloan, a former uranium miner, said, “I don’t want to live in this house anymore, but I have nowhere else to go.” The mining companies have brought more destruction by disturbing Indian gravesites with their operations. The companies usually just dump the Indian remains into shallow, fenced-in graves without any regard for the customs and feelings of the people. The Navajos’ whole way of life, culture and economy is being attacked by the energy capitalists in their lust for more profits. It’s not hard to understand why resistance is growing here in New Mexico, in the Black Hills of South Dakota and in Washington state against this outrageous example of nuclear dangers and national oppression. Navajos and Chicanos are currently protesting Uranium mining on Mt. Taylor, near Grants, New Mexico. Mt. Taylor is a sacred mountain of the Navajo tribe.

