Life in Panzo reflects more repression 

EDITOR’S NOTE: This is the first of a three part series concerning the anatomy of a Central American country whose basic human rights are lost somewhere between the dictatorship and American imperialism. Over one year ago, on May 29, 1978, Guatemalan soldiers fired on a crowd of peasants. When the shooting stopped over 140 men, women and children lay dead. What had begun as a peaceful demonstration of some 700 Kekchi Indians petitioning for respect of their rights to the land, ended as the Panzos massacre. The violence of Panzos continues. Two months ago, the bodies of two kidnapped peasants from the town were unearthed. In other parts of Guatemala's countryside, the ensuing year has seen massacres in Olopa, Quiche and Huehuetenango and killings of peasants in many other towns. Throughout the country, repression continues. An estimated 750 people were killed during January and February. According to Latin America Political Report, 15 bodies showing signs of torture are found each day. The police’s own reports show 75 and possibly over 100 violent deaths in the last week of. April. Eighty-one percent of the victims are peasants, workers or urban poor. Sometimes they are innocents or petty thieves, whose mutilated bodies are left in visible places to intimidate the population. Others are rand-and-file union or peasant activists. Still others are leaders: there is no sector of the popular movement which has not seen much of its leadership killed or driven into exile. Since the beginning of the year, repression has spread to people in all walks of life. Union leaders have been killed, exiled or jailed and interrogated without a warrant. The National University on April 25 denounced a plot to assassinate its President, as well as the deans of the Chemistry and Law Schools. University president, Saul Osorio saw his main advisor, Manuel Andrade Roca, killed earlier this year. Two priests were recently expelled from the country for “engaging in activities outside their competence”. Terrorism has also struck down well-known democratic political leaders. Alberto Fuentes Mohr, a Congressman, was assassinated on January 25, a day before he was to begin the legal process to register the Socialist Democratic Party. Almost exactly two months later, on March 22, Manuel Colon Argueta, ex-mayor of Guatemala City and leader of the United Front of the Revolution (FUR) party was shot down on a busy street by a 14-car hit squad. These
killings leave the country’s only progressive political parties without leadership. While the Army has been directly responsible for repression in the country-side, the assassinations and death threats are the work of numerous death squads, with names like ",Secret AntiCommunist Army ”, "Armed Action Force”, Zero Organization” and others. The government maintains it is not involved, blaming the killings on a fight between extreme right and extreme left, and calling on the population to take part in a social pact which would keep the peace and help combat ”subversion”. However, the use of ambush vehicles with known police and Army license plates, the fact that
no one has been prosecuted for any of the assassinations, the helicopter involved in Colon’s murder, all point to government control over the death squads’ activities. The squads merely try to provide a convenient cover for the government to escape national and international condemnation for its repressive actions, thus keeping the flow of aid and loans open. They also create a climate in which the far right and private industry goon squads can operate more freely. U.S. Congressman, Tom Harkin returned at the end of April from a fact-finding trip to Central America. He reports: ”From unimpeachable testimony I can now state that the army of Guatemala maintains effective liaison with these right-wing death squads and has the power to stop them, if it wanted to do so. But it is clear that the army leaders and the economic interest they support do not want them to stop. And I would also like to for you to recall that it was the United States which was largely responsible for the creation of these para-military forces in the late sixties”. AH the popular organizations agree. The growing understanding of the governments tactics and of the need to join forces to combat the repression has pushed all those groups affected to seek a common strategy to do so. This unity is now being built through the Democratic Front Against Repression. Last February, 143 organizations representing workers, peasants, urban poor, teachers, journalists, students, professionals, intellectuals, Christians, and democratic political parties, decided to come together against employer and government repression. This repression has hit all popular and democratic sectors.

When we united in the DEMOCRATIC FRONT AGAINST REPRESSION, we defined our basic objectives to be: to denounce on a national and international level all the repressive acts carried out against the people; to organize concrete and material solidarity with the victims of repression; to fight for repeal of those laws which give legal cover to the oppressors; and to encourage the popular and democratic organizations to fight the repression in an organized way. We solute the working class and all working people, reaffirming the need for the FRONT and proving the just nature of its objectives; the unspeakable crimes committed by the government, such as the murders of Manuel Colon Argueta of the FUR and Manuel Lopez Balam of the CocaCola workers’ union, fully confirm this. But repression by the employers and the government goes beyond these crimes. Every day, all over the country 6 or 7 bodies appear, with clear marks of torture; news radio station El Independiente was machine-gunned for the third time in an open attempt to intimidate honest journalists; other union leaders have been forced into exile, and things have even gotten to the point where detectives captured and jail-ed-labor lawyers at the airport as they came to see off an organizer going into exile; and just a few days ago, members of the government security forces shot down Alberto Hernandez, student leader from Miguel Garcia Granados high school, in cold blood and in the presence of fifty fellow students. But alt of this is no longer a surprise in Guatemala, where the only answer the government can give to any political, economic, social, educational, health or other problem is repression. The prisoners are machine-gunned in jail, high school students shot and teargassed as they wait to get into a musical performance at the Conservatory, organizers trying to form a workers’ union are threatened with death, detectives are sent to intimidate shanty-town dwellers demanding water and public transportation in their neighborhoods, we could enumerate hundreds of examples of the repressive policies of the government and the powerful whom it serves. However, in spite of this criminal and terrorist repressive wave, the democratic and popular sectors have given exemplary demonstrations of their willingness to struggle without wavering until their basic rights to live, organization and work are respected. Among the many examples of the Guatemalan people’s combativeness, the funeral procession of Manuel Colon Argueta stands out. The funeral became a huge demonstration of over a hundred thousand people, who dearly accused the government and the Army for the assassination of Colon. Another outstanding example is the heroic struggle of the Coca-Cola workers to defend their union, in spite of the assassination of two union heads and the forced exile of a third after surviving two criminal attempts on his life. And it is precisely this combativeness and this will to struggle of our people which moves all the popular and democratic organizations to continue struggling and to develop work methods which take into account the varieties and methods of the repression. We are not going to keep allowing ourselves to be killed with impunity. Thus, we call on all the people of Guatemala to stay united, to continue their solidarity and combativeness, and to seek the most appropriate ways to defend their families, their organizations and their leaders from government’s and employer’s repression. The ongoing struggle of the Coca-Cola workers union exemplifies the existing level of repression throughout industry. The first recent attempt at unionization ended in 1968 with the killing of union leader Cesar Barillas. In March 1976, after 152 employees were fired for organizing activities, workers took over the plant. The union was finally recognized and those fired reinstated, but at a cost If 12 wounded and many jailed by police. At this time the National Committee of Solidarity with the Coca-Cola workers was formed; it was this committee which eventually became the National Committee for Trade-Union Unity, CNUS. Although the union was won, repression has continued. The business was divided into 13 smaller companies, all under one roof, in an effort to divide the work force’s bargaining position. With tacit government support, workers are threatened with death if they stay in the union. Military police and openly armed .plainclothesmen often patrol outside the plant; many former soldiers have been hired as “personnel assistants”. Bribes and offers of a . better job are also used to pressure people into joining a pro-company union. There have been several kidnapping attempts by police within the factory itself, the latest on January 16. Two union heads, Pedro Quevedo y Quevedo and Manuel Lopez Balam have been assassinated in the last four months while on their daily delivery routes. A third, Israel Marquez, left the country after surviving several attempts on his life. Nine out of 24 names on one of the Secret Anti-Communist Army hit lists are members of the CocaCola union. The ESA has claimed responsibility for both killings. However, the CNUS points out that only management knew the delivery routes and schedules of the slain union officials, ”holding the owners of Coca-Cola responsible if a union member is killed”. The Coke plant in Guatemala is owned by Texas businessman John Trotter, who operates it on a franchise basis. Trotter has declared himself a sworn enemy of unions, and company headquarters says they have no influence over his actions (although they could put him out of business by taking away the franchise). At Coca-Cola’s annual stockholders meeting, Israel Marquez asked the company to set up a uniform labor code, adding ”Coca-Cola is now a synonym of crime in Guatemala”. Continued in next issue


