UMAS commemorates 10 years of progress
Chicanos reaffirm unity at UMAS’ Tenth Year Reunion
The “Ten Years of Struggle Commemoration” held on June 22 and 23 at the University of Colorado, Boulder, was successful in bringing 10 years of UMAS students together to participate in various political and cultural activities. The two day event was sponsored by the United Mexican American Students (UMAS) and its affiliates (El Diario, Farm Labor Task Force and Migrant Action Program). The focus of the reunion was to remind all students past and present that political struggles for an education are continuous and that we as minority students must continue fighting to insure our earned right to an education. The two day event consisted of various political and spiritual workshops ranging from the Farmworkers Struggle to Chicanos in the Media. Evening entertainment on Friday the 22nd was presented by Poet Lalo Delgado, Su Teatro, and the National Chicano Dance Theatre who astonished the crowd with an Indigenous dance as well as a dance depicting the Chicano sub-culture-Pachuquismo. An UMAS historical salute presentation was also shown lifting spirits from all who were present. On Saturday, June 23, the day began with a requiem mass for Los Seis de Boulder at Chautauqua Park where the first bombing occurred. Wallace Black Elk (spiritual Indian leader) spoke on the traditional, spiritual beliefs of the Indian people. Black Elk exposed the importance of the earth, sun and moon. Songs were performed by El Trio de Aztlan. Directly following the music, approximately 200 people joined in on a march through the streets of Boulder. The march proceeded down Baseline Road to 28th Street and down to Pudlik Liquor Store where the second bombing incident of 1974 occurred killing 3 more Chicanos. The
march was dedicated to commemorate those who died struggling for UMAS as well as to show the Boulder Community that Chicano students have been in Boulder for 10 years. Workshops in the afternoon resumed and continued till 5:30 P.M. when the final General Assembly occurred ending the political, cultural and educational aspects of the event. Teatro de Ustedes, and the second part to the UMAS historical slide presentation (by Sanchez and Martinez families) was presented ending all activities leading to the Chicano Dance held in the UMC Ballroom. El Caliente provided the music to approximately 700 eager dancers which concluded the two day event. Wallace Black Elk, spiritual leader in the Native American movement, says a few words of prayer during mass at Chautauqua Park for UMAS’ Tenth Anniversary. The National Chicano Dance Theatre of Denver gave a free (however exhilerating) performance of Saturday, June 22, at the UMC Ballroom in Boulder. Tickets are currently on sale for a performance to be on Friday, July 13, with special guest Daniel Valdez. Call El Diario for more information at 492-8836. El Trio de Aztlan provided music at UMAS' Anniversary, before and immediately following the march. Songs included Primavera and America de los Indios.

