In Brief

VENEZUELA - The abundance of the mineral wealth of Latin America especially oil has yet to be scratched. With the recent finds of Mexican oil that might match those of Saudia Arabia which has proven reserves of 167 billion barrels, Venezuela comes into the Venezuela recently increased the countries exploration program to increase its oil reserves, and is also in the process of exploring what is probably the largest non-conventional oil source in the hemisphere, the Orinoco Heavy Oil Belt. The estimates of oil contained under this sandy terrain is some three trillion barrels of very heavy, non-viscous oil. At the present rate of development the oil will not be available for another 10 years, the Venzuelan government wants their own national company, Petroleos de Venezuela to produce the oil, but has sought foreign assistance from the governments of Japan, France and Canada to develop the necessary technology. With these finds in Venezuela and Mexico the possible reserves of Latin American oil, might dwarf those of the middle-east. NICARAGUA - Sandinista National Liberation Front guerrillas stepped up activity against the National Guard, who has been firing rockets into the city of Esteli. According to La Prensa, the opposition newspaper to the Somoza dictatorship, the National Guard has been firing rockets, via T-33 jets, and raiding houses (door to door) in Esteli in an attempt to drive out the Sandinistas . The Sandinistas issued a three-page communique calling for citizens to join them in forming a provisional government. WASHINGTON in a report released late in May by the State Department, approximately 500 million to 700 million people around the world are "seriously malnourished.” If action isn’t taken to restore mankind's basic food needs the threat on world hunger could worsen.

WASHINGTON Early in May, Representative Ray Kogavsek was appointed to serve on a 12-member interparliamentary group studying U.S. - Mexico relations. Topics such as undocumented workers, pollution, law of the sea, cultural inter-change and drug control will be discussed at these sessions. A major issue, oil, will also be included in these talks. DECATUR ALABAMA Southern Christian Leadership Conference Project Director accused police of failing to protect black marchers during a demonstration held May 28. Casualties took place between black demonstrators and Klan members during a protest march over the conviction of a 27 year old black man who was found guilty of raping a white woman. Klan members were armed in an effort to block the march by the black demonstrators. In the confrontation one klansmember was shot. DENVER, CO. The Coalition of Indian Controlled School Boards is working on a project to receive assistance from the National VISTA Grant program. The VISTA program would serve to help develop leadership among the young Indian students as well as give them a sense of self-determination in their own education, a vital issue to Indian culture. Jean Hunt, member of the coalition, states that, “The students aren’t so much dropouts as they are push-outs.” The Coalition was established when three Indian-controlled schools came together to get more clout after unsuccessfully struggling individually. It became incorporated in 1971 as a national Indian education organization and now has a membership of 160 education groups. WASHINGTON Health Education and Welfare Secretary, Joseph Califano is seeking to amend the Social Security Act to tighten regulations and restrictions. This is being done in an effort to curb alleged medicaid and medicare “cheaters.” With the proposed amendments, persons found falsifying information could be penalized with fines and possible exclusion from participating in these programs. WASHINGTON - Eight persons, including 2 current and 4 former policemen were charged May 29 by the federal government with operating schemes to defraud businessmen and professionals. Allegedly the eight offered their "victims” hot money for lessor amounts of U.S. currency.