G.I. Forum calls end to Coors boycott,

The status concerning the 12 year boycott of Coors’ products became a recent issue, when late last month at the G.I. Forum’s (a Chicano Veterans organization) National Convention, they announced the end to the 11 year

boycott of Coors. The G.I. Forum began their boycott due to unfair hiring practices at the Coors brewery, but over the years they have changed their policy towards Coors several times. During the past

few years their involvement in the boycott was less than enthusiastic. Some attribute it to the many losses of grants to the Forum from Coors. Currently Coors is in the midst of a full scale media blitz. Television commercials in both English and Spanish to promote the beer, as well as Lee Trevino’s recent multi-year contract with Coors to do commercials and appearances are two such endeavors. This year’s Colorado Golden Gloves Boxing Tournament, which usually draws a large Chicano audience, finds Coors sponsored posters advertising the event. This media blitz appears to signify that Coors is hurting for more sales, and recent figures reveal he is, at the tune of a $l3 million decline in net income last year. Many attribute this to the boycott. Coors’ media stampede and now the Forum’s decision may lead many to believe Coors has righted past wrongs, but these mere tokenistic actions still do not erase the other atrocites by Coors.  Potato crops being ruined in el valle de San Luis, due to cloud seeding for Coors’ barley is one. Helicopter donations to the Denver Police and attempts at abolishing financial aid programs at the University of Colorado when Coors was a Regent there, also reveal the true Coors. But Coors’ constant effort to thwart simple unionizing by brewery employees is a battle that has been on going for many years, and unfortunately probably will continue many more. People who have felt and are currently feeling Coors’ unjust practices are not asking you to lend a hand by DOING something, rather they ask that you DON’T do something. BOYCOTT COORS!