Marroquin denied Asylum

In mid-April, Immigration Judge, James Smith, ruled against granting political asylum to Hector Marroquin and ordered him deported within 30 days. Marroquin, 25-year-old student leader, trade activist and socialist based his plea for political asylum substantiating evidence of possible imprisonment, torture or even death if forced to return to Mexico. The ruling from the Immigration judge is bias and unjustly based. Judge Smith, in a phone interview with the Washington Star states “Marroquin’s case was like that of the average wetback, until he got caught.” In the Washington Star article said immigration officials expressed their “fear” that if Marroquin is granted asylum, thousands of undocumented workers would request asylum. Daniel Kahn, INS attorney, stated to the Houston court that if asylum was granted to a Mexican, 50,000 of them would be coming out of the woodwork. Margaret Winter, attorney for Marroquin present evidence that supported Marroquin’s right to asylum, however, as a common practice of the U.S. judicial system, the truth was overlooked.

According to the Marroquin Defense Committee, the district attorney had a faulty case, presenting only a few pieces of evidence. The main argument was based on the Mexican Amnesty Law passed in 1978. This law was supposed to grant anmesty to political prisoners. The district attorney put forth that it was safe for Marroquin to return to Mexico based on this law. However, as defense witnesses testified, this amnesty law has not been followed. Political prisoners are still jailed and the law has not improved their status. Supporters of Marroquin believe the court's decision was based on his political beliefs as member of the Socialist Workers Party. The court overlooked the right of an individual’s freedom of belief and buried the established basis for granting asylum to refugees. It is now important that people-in-support of Marroquin’s right to asylum, write letters, make phone calls, or take whatever steps necessary to overturn Judge Smith’s ruling. The Defense Committee plans to appeal Marroquin's case all the way to the Supreme Court if the Immigration Board of Appeals will not overturn the ruling. For more information contact P.O. Box 843, Cooper Station, New York, N.Y. 10003 (212) 691-