Decision Negative for Chicano Professor

Professor Thomas Martinez would have been the first Chicano Professor to receive tenure from Chicano Studies Department. But the conservative element of C.U. prevailed and his tenure was denied.

—— Martinez was hired and contracted by the University in the fall of 1976 to teach research and to do community work. Martinez who came up for tenure recently was denied by the Advisory Committee of the Chancellor of the University on grounds of an absence of scholarly publications and has failed to develop an academic home on the Boulder campus. If tenure would have been given to Martinez his tenure would be the first for any professor from the Chicano Studies Dept. In a recent interview, Martinez pointed out that the Advisory Committee who voted down his tenure, only recommends tenure for professors who are “lap dog intellectuals Martinez said this is what they like,” “My area is anti-establishment, a very touchy area.” When Martinez was first recruited by the community and C.U. for Chicano Studies as a professor in the fall of 1976, both Chancellor J. Russell Nelson and Dean William Briggs had previously promised some five years to date that there would be more Chicano professors and also promised that the university would have a Chicano studies degree to offer students, but still no degree exists. Martinez further expounded that if the Chicano community and student body do not take action on his denial for tenure, it would be the most recent event in the long chain of broken promises that this university has made toward the Chicano community. This, Martinez said, is an example of the many promises this country and state have broken with Chicanos of Colorado and the Southwest. Nelson represents an example of the American hypocrisy involving treaties and promises like that to the treaty between Mexico and the U.S. the treaty of Guadalupe Hildago which has never been ratified or the promises ever kept. In light of the principals that this university was founded on, that being the pursuit of knowledge and truth and SHARING IT. The advisory Committee which makes recommendations to the chancellor who has responsibilities and duties as chief academic officer on the Boulder Campus, concerning Chicano Studies and other academic affairs has the power to dictate the future of such programs on the Boulder campus though there are no Chicano administrator or professors on the committee, from a humanistic standpoint the Chicano Studies dept should have some say so on the Advisory Committee but does not, Tomas point out.

State Representative Polly Barrigan was quoted as saying that “She was rather, shocked to hear of Martinez’s denial of tenure on the ground of scholarship,” “I first heard of him

(Martinez) at Stanford University because of his writing and scholasts”, I have taken quotations from

some of his writings in speeches that I have made in the past.” I have known

Tomas for 10 years and “I honestly don’t understand.” Representative Barrigan said. Attempts were made to contact Chancellor Nelson for comments but to no due.