Land Struggle Campout and Conference Planned
On July 19-22, in the Valle de San Luis in Southern Colorado.a campout will be held to bring attention to the land struggle in Chama, Colorado. The campout conference is designed to be a working gathering, where gente from throughout the Southwest, and other parts of the country will come together with community organizers and others actively working on the land issue, to share information, exchange ideas, and plan future strategies. Discussion will center on four aspects of the land rights issue: historical; legal; political; and spiritual/environmental. Anyone wanting and willing to work on the land issue is encouraged to attend. Various Chicano and Native American groups have already indicated their willingness to participate in this grassroot effort. All participants will campout on private land near the 77,000 acre mountain tract of San Luis, Colorado that businessman. Jack T. Taylor arbitrarily closed off to the Chicano community in 1960. For the past 19 years, la gente del valle have been actively working to regain their land. Presently, these efforts are being coordinated by the Land
Rights Council, a non-profit Chicano community organization that is developing a legal team to research and pursue litigation in the courts. Because of the historical denial of justice for Chicanos in the U.S. courts, gente in El Valle are working to develop other strategies should the courts fail again. Everyone attending should bring sleeping bags and other equipment and supplies they will need to campout for three days. Food will be provided and speakers, teatro, films, and other entertainment will be presented. All activities will be free. This conferencia is significant in that it will be the first time gente from throughout Aztlan will come together in southern Colorado to discuss Chicano Land Rights and work in developing feasible solutions. Various outdoor recreational activities will be available the three days prior to the conferencia for those with leisure time seeking recreation and relaxation. Families are invited and encouraged to attend. For more information contact the Land Rights Council P.O. Box 149, Chama, Colorado 81126 (303) 672-3361.