A seis anos del golpe Chile aim lucha contra la dictadura

The sixth anniversary of the death of Chilean Socialist President Salvador Allende and the temporary fall of the Chilean popular movement has been remembered world-wide by the members of the deposed government and movement. In Stockholm. Sweden, members of the government of this country have declared that the Chilean junta "have embodied brutal persecution and the oppression of the weak and the poor." One member of the Chileans in exile declared, in a speech based on the sixth anniversary of the overthrow of the popular Chilean government that is essential "to remember that the solidarity with the Chilean people is rooted in Swedish public opinion, through all political parties. On the other hand supporters of the military dictatorship in Chile have declared that there exists an international campaign to "darken" the Independence Day (September 18) celebrations. This was because the confederation of Latin American workers has declared a boycott against the dictatorship during the month of September, who were also supported by the National Federation of Dockworkcrs of Bogota, Colombia and the Argentinian transportation dock and telecommunications. Meanwhile inside Chile almost 100 persons put an end to the hunger strikes maintained in the Denmark Embassy in the capital and other cities throughout the country to obtain "one of the objectives of our struggle." The Hunger Strike finished when the martial court resolved to return fifteen cadavers of missing political activists which were found in an abandoned mine, outside the city. Another objective of the strike was to obtain information about 651 other persons missing since 1975 after having been arrested by security members of the dictatorship. Chilean exiles with the solidarity of the Mexican people also commemorated the sixth anniversary of the overthrow. "We remember today our martyr President, Salvador Allende, assassinated six years ago when he defended the Palacio de la Moncda. as well as we commemorate the memory of the thousands of patriots who perished in defense of Chilean Democracy."
El sexto aniversario dc la muerte del presidente socialista chileno Salvador Allende v dc la temporal caida del movimiento popular chileno ha sido recordado mundialmente por los miembros del depuesto gobierno v movimiento. En Estocolmo, Succia, miembros del gobierno de este par, han declarado que la junta chilena "encarna la persucion brutal v la opresion de los debiles v los pobres." Un miembro de los chilenos en exilio declarer en un discurso con motivo del sexto aniversario del derrocamiento del gobierno popular chileno que es imprescindible "recordar que la solidaridad con el pueblo chileno esta enraizada en la opinion publica sueca. a traves de todos los partidos politicos." Por otra parte partidarios de la dictadura militar en Chile han manifestado que existe una campana internacional para "ensombrecer" las celebraciones del dia dc indepcndencia (18 dc septiembre). Esto fit? por motivo de que la confederacion dc Trabajadores Latinoamericanos ha declarado este mes (septiembre) un boycot contra la dictadura, a los que se adhirieron tambien La Federacion Nacional de Trabajadores Portuarios de Bogota, Colombia v los gremios argentinos de transporte. portuarios v telecomunicaciones. Entretanto dentro dc Chile casi un centenar de personas ponian fin a una huelga de hambre mantenida en la Embajada de Dinamarca, en la capital v en otras ciudades a lo largo del pa's al obtenerse ìuno de los objetivos dc nuestra lucha." La Huelga de Hambre termino cuando la corte marcial resolvio entregar quince cadaveres dc politicos desaparecidos v que fueron encontrados en una mina ahandonada. afueras dc la capital. Otro objetivo dc la huelga era obtener informacion dc otras 651 personas desaparecidas desde 1975 despues de haber sido arrestadas por miembros de seguridad dc la dictadura. En Mexico, exiliados chile nos con la solidaridad del pueblo mexicano commemoraban tambien. "Rccordamos hoy a nuestro Presidente martir, Salvador Allende, asesinado hace seis anos cuando defendia cl Palacio dc la Moneda, asimismo conmemoramos la memoria dc los miles de patriotas que perecieron por defender la Democracia dc Chile.î 