Carta al editor
Dear Editor, 
Please print the attached article “When a Chicano is White” from a real Chicano who just happens to be a truthful Chicano, unless, of course, your paper is an Anglo-Chicano publication. 
Paul .1. Hernandez 
Box 1010 Reg. No. 40540 
Canon City, CO 81212 
WHEN A CHICANO IS WHITE 
A Chicano is white and considered an equal in the United States of America, when he or she is needed for some reason or other, such as when there is war and America needs someone to die and sustain injury for her. This is proven by past and present American history. Take for instance the present status of the Chicano people, they have no real political power, they have no real wealth. They have no say-so in life. They are given only what the white man, says or determines, they could have which isn’t much. Why? Because most whites (Anglos), from the highest and richest to the lowest and poorest, are prejudiced against Chicanos and Blacks, but mostly against Chicanos. The Anglos prejudice is deep rooted, either consciously or sub-consciously, but nevertheless all too conspicuous. Further, Chicanos are a simple people, who are so totally brainwashed, that they believe the outrageous propaganda that all citizens of the United States are equal in the eyes of the U.S. Government arid in the eyes of their Anglo neighbor. Shame! Don’t Chicanos have eyes? Don’t they have ears? Don’t they have a brain to think with? Only a complete deaf and blind fool cannot see and understand that Anglos have not in the past done justice to the
Chicano people. What is the change or difference in the status of Chicanos now? For the answer, look around you; listen and hear the cries of the oppressed; unless you are a Chicano that has heart, then you are a Chicano that is satisfied with being what the Anglos call a good “Spanish American.” What can be done? Nothing, is the answer! So what is the purpose of knowing the reality that appears in this disturbing article? The purpose of this article is to bring the truth and knowledge of life to the Chicano people, to prevent Chicanos from despairing of their existence. To bring realization that to give your mind, body and soul to “proving” your equality to the Anglo is just to cause misery to your life. Once, Chicanos were a beautiful and honorable people, but their quest to be equal to the Anglo, has made them become ugly and dishonorable through jealousies, drugs and perversion of their bodies. Once, the Anglo stole somethings from the Chicano heritage that were beautiful, now the Chicano is stealing and emulating the ways of the Anglo that were, are and will be ugly to the end of time. This whole article can be proven beyond a shadow of doubt by past*, present and future history of the Anglo-Saxon race. There are some Anglos that do not fit the category of the ones referred to in this article, but they can be counted on one hand - if you don’t count the thumb! 
Paul J. Hernandez P.S. 
This article was done impromptu and therefore not exhaustive.

