U.S. Perpetrates War

On January 23, 1980, President Jimmy Carter delivered his State of the Union Address to the members of the 96th Congress and to the world. The message was one of fear--a fear that has been growing within the minds of U.S. leaders since the overthrow of the Shah's regime in Iran several months ago. In his address, the President called attention to three developments that have helped shape what he referred to as "our challenges" --, 1) the steady growth of Soviet military power beyond its own borders; 2) the overwhelming dependence of the Western democracies on oil supplies from the Middle East; 3) the press of social and religious and economic and political change in many nations of the developing world-exemplified by the revolution in Iran. The tone of the message was obviously that of a leader preparing his followers for grave consequences. While patting himself on the back for being the greatest proponent of human rights in history, and pointing proudly to the friendships that his administration had created with Egypt, China, and other countries, Carter impliedly began the process of polarizing the nations of the world in preparation for another big showdown. Subsequent releases of information by the President's men have not been as carefully worded. While the president's special envoy Clark Clifford -- remember him from the Vietnam days? -- was stating explicitly that any further aggression by the Soviets outside of their borders would mean war, his Secretary of Defense was telling members of Congress that any military effort, to be successful, would require the assistance of the U.S.’s allies. Further discrepancies are apparent. While the U.S. media has been busy whipping up the hysteria of the nation’s gullible public against Iran and other Islamic peoples, the President has been backing away from that stance. In his State of the Union Address, Carter related his wishes to “strengthen political and military ties with... nations in the (Persia) region.” Professing a respect for the faith of Islam, Carter stated... "we are ready to cooperate with all Moslem countries.” Meanwhile, the peoples that will be most affected by the aggressions of either superpower are taking a stance against both, realizing that the heightened tension is being brought about by greed. At a recent summit of Islamic nations, the leaders called for an end to aggressions by either side of the hostilities, and warned small nations everywhere that such actions would threaten peace and security for all. The message of the Islamic leaders is well taken. In a recent television interview, former naval commander Elmo Zumwald was succinct in his appraisal of the possible outcome of a war using modern day state-of-the-art weaponry. “There will be no winner.”