The World is Changing
“We will change this life so your children will live to build their city of light.” Pablo Neruda These lines are at the end of Nerudas “Calero, Banana Worker.” The poem is about selfless devotion and the miracle of survival. If taken to heart it is away into the world of self-esteem where men and woman gave their lives in self-less devotion to the principals that make people free and nations great. The world is changing, a new revolutionary spirit is unfolding in Central America. Some say it is a struggle between the have and the have nots. A class struggle. Others cut the flesh of defenseless people and serve it to vicious tyrannical rulers. Then have the impudence to call Fidel Castro, Che Guevara, and Cesar Agusto Sandino terrorists, political adventurers, and Marxists. As if the genius of Karl Marx was repugnant. This odious slander is printed, a almost daily practice, in the American press. A recent article depicting Castro as mentally unbalanced and drinking heavily is an example. The public, generally ill-informed on crucial international issues, fall victim to this propaganda. Yet some escape this and become human. They find that the world is not the same as the American press has led them to believe. Listen to these sincere unassuming words that a North American Volunteer in Central America has written to a beloved family and try to believe that the world our government and the heartless multinationals would have us believe in is the same world she cares deeply about. ‘I don’t know how to explain it, but the anguish and the pain are very real to me. The voices are calling from Guatemala and El Salvador very clearly, and also from Chile. Suddenly they are clearer and louder inside me. An awakening of the sensitivities, to their struggle, and to the need for commitment to the struggle in these times of change. In this historical period where all the contradictions and dynamics become clear-in this Quinto Sol, moving towards the end of century.’ In another part of her letter she writes “1 find the people talk about the war all the time, of the determination of those times, the fear, the joys of sharing and the victory. The terror, the horror of the barbarities that were committed, and the struggle to justify the death.” The path she has chosen is right and the future belongs to this courageous North American volunteer. As the heritage of this time will belong to these death-less martyrs, and to those valiant heroes of the revolution (her companeros and companeras) who dared to believe that by their individual actions they could help guide the world out of an economic order that is reeking in every pore with blood and corruption. Nations and people must live their own lives, and make their own history. This is the universal rule of democracy. They will not be held hostage by the same set of arbitrary economic laws that serve the rich and powerful so well. The people will rise! “What lives we lead what torn joy what strength broken for want of food what songs unsung in ragged slums what fists of men undone by men.” Orlando Martinez

