State of UMAS
The UMAS Student Organization has continued its involvement with campus administration to maintain our programs; it has been a struggle to keep what little we have on this campus and unless we rally ourselves again, all may be lost. Last summer a student Financial Aid rally brought to the attention of University administration the fact that many UMAS students had not received their Financial Aid awards and were either going back home or suffering hardships that come with having no money. As a result of the rally, the Reasons why no awards were received by students were uncovered. Since then many UMAS students have continued to struggle at this University. Many returning UMAS students faced the same difficulties and resistance our summer students faced. During the fall season we again lost students who left the campus, unable to cope with their financial difficulties. As though this was not enough, UMAS freshmen were awarded work study. We saw this as a tactic by the Anglo C.U. administration to apply more pressure to UMAS freshmen to push them off campus. Recently Mike Alexander sent a memo to all campus administrators. [The topic? No work-study money for the summer, specifically for the summer institute. In case you haven't put it together yet, Mr. Alexander gave our summer money to freshmen as work study money. He was warned in the fall that if he did appropriate work study to freshmen, chances were that money could run out and no summer institute work study money would be available, yet he did it anyway for obvious reasons. We must demand that our students not suffer financial hardships as in past years. Also, the UMAS Student Organization office, located in the UMC Room 187, is in danger of being taken away from us. Rules of the UMC board state that student organization offices must be opened at least twenty hours per week. To date we have no one in the office. If the office is taken away from the UMAS Student Organization, murals in the office by Heriberto Teran will be painted over and the whole history of UMAS will be lost. If you're tired of hanging around Alfred Packer Grill or just anywhere, hang around your office. A phone, typewriter and a radio are there for your use and pleasure. If you want in, you must obtain a key card from Andrea Lucero, she is usually in the UMAS Student Organization office on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons after 2:00 P.M. or the UMAS-EOP WOMENS RESOURCE CENTER office Tuesday and Thursday mornings. Please set a little time aside to help keep this office door open. The results will be rewarding. The UMAS Board of Directors is planning a super spring with movies, dances, a Cinco de Mayo celebration if we get enough student help, and a MAYA student recruitment conference for Colorado Chicano high school students. We need participation from the UMAS student body. A couple of your hours a week can make a world of difference. 
HELP SUPPORT YOUR STUDENT ORGANIZATION.

