Financial Aid Conference Encouraging
By Sue Avery
Minorities seem to be finally gaining a voice in the bureaucracies of government, at least in the Department of Education At a national financial aid conference held Feb. 21-23 in Washington, D.C., a resolution was made to put more Hispanics, Native Americans, and Blacks into policymaking positions in the Department of Education. And, due to the efforts of UMAS Board of Directors Chairperson, Andrea Lucero, who attended the three-day conference. Minority students here on campus now have an opportunity to help design a public service announcement for television. The first day of the conference featured the evaluation of several public service announcements that were developed to let families and students know that financial aid is available. Lucero said that the total number of students at the conference were unhappy with the commercials. “They were just all around bad public service announcements,” said Lucero. According to Lucero, out of seven commercials, there was one Chicana and one Black. The Chicana was in a line of many students, and the Black was a ventriloquist with a dummy. “Even though they say they’re trying to get minorities into higher education, the emphasis is on whites. The commercials are not aimed at Brown people,” said Lucero. At the conference, Lucero voiced her opinions about the poor quality of the commercials, and brought them to the attention of Steve Blair, who works with the Bureau of Financial Aid Student Services. Blair told Lucero that he would try very hard to locate funds if she would design a new commercial.
Lucero, now back in Boulder, is asking the student population here at C.U. to give some input or come up with their own ideas for a 30-second-long public service announcement. “The commercial will be oriented toward Chicanos, Puerto Ricans, and other Brown people.” said Lucero, “They must be able to identify with the theme.” Lucero stressed Chicano needs throughout the conference, which had 50 percent minority representation in contrast to only 10 percent representation at last year’s conference. The second day of the conference included a review of financial aid programs and applications, and Lucero learned that the interest rates for National Direct Student Loans are increasing from three percent to seven percent, and those for
Guaranteed Student Loans are increasing from seven percent to twelve percent. The third day focused on special workshops. According to Lucero, many good resolutions were made, including the one to put more minorities into policy-making positions in the new Department of Education. In the High School Workshop, Lucero tried to let officials know that there are deep troubles in minority high schools. According to Lucero, 40 percent of all Chicanos drop out of high school, which is due to the poor quality of the schools caused by low tax levels in the barrios. “They have a lack of interest to stay in school. Counselors suggest vocations, not higher education.” But things seem to be getting better for Chicanos. With conferences such as the recent one, bureaucrats are finally beginning to listen to the needs of minorities, minorities.
