Why I Need an Education!
Today’s society does not serve all people. It mainly serves the rich and the middle-class white males. l’m not rich, middle-class, white, or male! Earn a young woman. I’m a Chicana! They call me a minority. Why is an education important to me? Because they call me a minority! The society I live in does not bother to meet my needs. Therefore, I must meet my own needs. My needs are not the same as the rich, the male, or the middleclass. My needs are different. I’m different; because I am a women, because I am a Chicana. One way to meet my needs is to succeed in education. Success is not giving up like so many young Chicanos and Blacks have done. A true fighter never gives up! You want to fight? Then fight to stay in school and go to college! Be a Winner! “Only the strong survive.” Remember that my home girls y homeboys Many of our parents came from the working fields and did not have the chance that we have in education. Making life easier for themselves was hard, harder than it is today. The farmworkers didn’t even make enough money to afford the food they had to pick under the hot sun. I don’t want to be a slave for any man. I have a chance to go to college and I’m going if God is willing! Our barrios are really not safe for our old people and the little kids. Our barrios are not protected by the chota. The only time the chota comes around is when they want to arrest us or bust our heads open. But they never come around when we are in trouble and need their protection. This is where we live. That is why I need an education, so that 1 can make some changes. We can change things. One way to change things is for all of us to get an education and help our people. We have to stop fighting each other and fight a real enemy. Fighting each other does not get us anywhere. I want a good education. I want to become a lawyer so that I can help change the laws that are hurting my Raza today. For instance, one of the laws I would like to change is the one that calls a person who comes from Mexico to work an illegal alien. The United States allow other people to come to this country without calling them illegal aliens. My people are not aliens, they are not from Mars. They are from Mexico. You are sitting in Mexico right now! Also the government gives loans to people who are not U.S. citizens but does not give them to Chicanos, who are the real citizens. That is why I need an education! When I go to college and law school I am going in as a Chicana and as Gina Maestas. When I come out I will still be a Chicana and still be Gina Maestas. But when I come out I will be fighting for my Raza. I will not allow anyone to put me down or my people. I need an education because I am a proud Brown Woman!
Gina Maestas is a Jr. High student from San Jose, California.
