SACNAS Conference to be held in N.M.
The society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science, SACNS, announced today that it will hold its 1980 National Conference in Albuquerque, New Mexico on November 20-22. The title for the Conference of Biomedical Research and Its Impact on the Hispanic and Indian Communities. Co-chairpersons are Dr. Diana I. Marinez, professor at Michigan State University and Dr. J.V. Martinez, program manager at the U.S. Department of Energy. Four hundred conferees throughout the nation are expected to attend. Half of these will be students in graduate, undergraduate and high school, the latter mostly from areas around Albuquerque. The other half of the group will be composed of Hispanic and Indian scientists, but a number of teachers, counselors, and industrial and government representatives are expected to be present. The Conference will be the largest gathering of Chicano and Indian scientists ever assembled. The technical symposia will consider such topics as alcohol and drug abuse, cancer, mental health, infectious diseases and ethno medicine. Speakers at these symposia will be largely, but not exclusively, Hispanic and Indian scientists reporting on their own scientific research on their own scientific research. A symposium titled “Conversation with Scientists” will afford students seeking a career in science a unique opportunity to exchange views informally with professional scientists from among several disciplines including the physical, as well as the biomedical, sciences. The program committee is exploring the possibility of having a joint symposium with Mexican scientists to discuss research related to the exploitation of plants as energy substitutes. The Conference activities will include selected demonstration projects by area high school students, a poster session by undergraduate and graduate student researchers, exhibits and tours of local scientific laboratories. Support for the Conference is made possible in part through the National Institutes of Health. The Conference will benefit from support and cooperation provided to it by the Southwest Resource Center for Science and Engineering at the University of New Mexico Science Foundation. Support is also being provided by the Albuquerque LULAC National Educational Service Center. Additional information may be obtained by calling 505-243-0302 or writing SACNAS, P.O.Box 3831, Albuquerque, NM 87190. The Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Mexican American scientists who recognized the need for collective efforts to increase the participation of Indians and Chicanos in science. The founding group first met at Medical School of the University of New Mexico in the summer of 1971. This group of approximately 30 scientists represented a wide spectrum of geographically dispersed institutions throughout the country.
The founding group met again in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on April, 1973, during, but not part of, the annual meeting of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. At this occasion a panel comprised of representatives from the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the National Science Foundation, the Atomic Energy Commission, the National Institutes of Health and the Bell Telephone Laboratories discussed resources available for support of minorities in science. Also at this meeting, scientific colloquia in mathematics, chemistry, physics and biology were presented by Chicano and Indian scientists. At this time the Society held its first business meeting and elected the first officers and board of directors. Dr. Eugene Cota-Robles, formerly Vice-Chancellor at the University of California at Santa Cruz and now member of the National Science Board, was elected as the first president of SACNAS. The Society incorporated as a non-profit organization in the District of Columbia in November, 1974. The constitution and bylaws were ratified at that SCANAS general meeting held in Albuquerque, New Mexico in August, 1975. Since the first organizational meeting, SCANAS has grown to a current membership of approximately 200 Chicano and Native American scientists representing a wide range of scientific disciplines.
The charter of the Society is to increase the participation of Indians and Chicanos in the sciences. This task is carried out by seeking and disseminating information on opportunities to these minority scientists and coordinating their enhanced participation in all facets of scientific endeavor. Some of the activities whereby SCANAS seeks to increase the number of Indian and Chicano scientists are: (1) sponsoring individual and collective efforts to interest Chicano and Indian youth in the sciences through membership exposure (role modeling) in science demonstrations, presentations of research results, etc.; (2) tutoring and mentoring of Chicano and Indian students at local universities; (3) identifying financial support for students interested in pursuing science careers; (4) providing advice on federal legislation to establish programs designed tro provide support for training to improve the quality of science research and education for minorities as well as non-minorities; (6) avocation consideration of its members by academia, governmental and private enterprise for administrative and research position. In the past, SCANAS has arranged and sponsored symposia on topics pertinent to the interests of Hispanic and Indian scientists at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in cooperation with the AAAS office of Opportunities in Science.

