i Luis Vive!
A spirit lives within the Crusade for Justice as well as the people associated with it. The spirit is that of Luis (Junior) Martinez, who on March 17, 1973 was killed during an unprovoked assault by Denver Police on the Crusade. This year, as in the past seven, the Crusade again remembers that eventful day which left Luis dead, scores injured and over 70 persons arrested, with commemoration activities March 16 and 17. The attack took place on the 1500 block of Downing Street where the Crusade is located. A party had been in progress at one of the apartments owned by the Crusade operated, Escuela Tlatelolco. The three-hour incident began when
Martinez walked across the street to where Patrolman Stephen Snyder and Policewoman Carol Hogue were to inquiry about their present. When they did not answer he persisted and was then told he had jaywalked. A small group formed around the patrol car when Martinez was asked for identification. Synder asked them to move away and they complied. Then Martinez bolted from the car with Synder in pursuit. Later Luis would be found dead, face down, with a bullet in the back. During the confrontation an explosion ripped out parts of one of the apartments. However, that building was ordered demolished by police the following day, possibly destroying any evidence to “who really” was responsible for its destruction. Weeks following the incident, it was learned that the police had planned the attack to gain sudden entrance into the basements of the apartments where “under cover information alleged the Crusade was holding an armory of weapons destined for shipment to Wounded Knee.” The attack came a few days after the Crusade and the Denver Native American community organized a massive protest march through Denver in support of the Wounded Knee takeover. The weapons which were confiscated during the assault were found to be legally owned by occupants of the apartments; these included rifle “props” used by the Ballet Chicano de Aztlan. “The Saint Valentine’s Day Massacre”, as the attack has become known as has been commemorated each of the past years. Chicano Humanities in the 80’s is the theme on March 16, when the music, art, dance and theatre of La Raza will be the topics. The discussions begin at 4:00 p.m. at the Crusade for justice 1567 Downing Street and are free to the public, later that evening at 7:00, The Ballet Chicano de Aztlan will perform in the Crusade auditorium. A donation is asked. A Barrio Unity Conference is slated for March 17 with workshops on: Chicano Education, Gang Warfare, Anti-Draft Movement and Chicano Power/Politicai Worker. Teatros, musica and speakers are other scheduled activities. The workshops will begin at 9:00 a.m. and continue until 4:00 p.m. The commemoration will conclude with a march from the Crusade at 6:00 to the state capitol. Luis was an active member of the Crusade and sincerely devoted toward the progressive struggle of his Raza. The man may be gone, but his ideals live on. ILuis Vive!

