Chicano Law Students List Demands
Minority Students at C.U.'s law school will be demanding that the administration take positive steps to insure that Chicanos and other Minority students are afforded needed assistance in making it through the three year program. According to sources within the Chicano Law Students organization, the precise wording of the list of demands has not yet been agreed upon, but will include some of the requests that CLS and other organizations have constantly asked for without success. According to a preliminary position paper put out by individual CLS students (to be reviewed and endorsed by the organization later this week and presented to the administration), the list of demands will probably include the following. 1) Affirmative action by upgrading the quality of tutorial programs throughout the school year. 2) That the administration take responsibility for wide-scale recruiting efforts of minority students immediately. 3) the grading policy of the law school be reorganized to reflect policies of the more progressive law schools (Harvard, Stanford),and to eliminate the flunk-out mentality which seems to pervade the administration's attitude towards Minority Students. 4) the clinical program at the law school be expanded. 5) the next permanent faculty position be filled with a minority 6) the administration formulate and implement a Minority Affairs Committee to exist for the purpose of addressing Minority grievances that now exist or may exist in the future at this law school. 7) Minority students be allowed to sit in and vote on selected administrative committees. The Law Students plan to enlist the assistance of all minority campus organizations.as well as legislative and community based groups, in order to convince the administration that the demands are not unreasonable and are in fact necessary to fulfill the spirit of Affirmative Action and the needs of the minority population of the State and the Region. “We ought to get it on!” Ricardo Falcon 1973

