Trouble in Chile
Pinochet’s regime has been characterized by its politics of economic denationalization, accomplished by the transfer of strategic businesses to private hands and transnational corporations. Thus, at the cost of plunging Chileans into poverty. North American monopolies are earning great profits. Recently, the State Tire Industry (Industria Estatal de NeumaticosINSA) has sued the North American Goodyear Company and the Corporation for the Furtherance of Chilean Development (Corporacion de Fomento Para el Desarrollo--CORFO) because of illegal expropriation of property. CORFO took charge of INSA in 1976, offering compensation that to the present time has not been granted. Moreover, CORFO had sold INSA’s property to Goodyear before the INSA-CORFO legal transfer.
Another aspect of Pinochet’s policy of surrendering national interest to foreign companies has been the announcement that the Public Garbage Collectors (Recolectores de Basura Publicos) would be contracted by private companies and that the public would then have to pay for their services. To this we can also add the exploitation of workers in all Chilean sectors. Since 1973, capital has accumulated in the Chilean economy that is being controlled by at least five financial groups. These groups, in order to realize their dreams, ar pushing the Chilean population into extreme poverty. Children today can be seen begging in the streets; moreover, as a consequence of the continuous repression of the Chilean people, the children and relatives of the citizens who have disappeared, been arrested or executed by the fascist junta are suffering strong emotional and mental disturbances. Chilean sectors that are concerned about this deplorable condition that the children of the victims of repression are experiencing have outlined their goals as encompassing the formation of schools for recuperation for mental recovery. In order to raise funds to invest in this noble enterprise, sectors have started a vigorous financial campaign in Chile as well as internationally.
En espanol El rfgimen de Pinochet se ha caracterizado por su politica de de nacionalizacion de em presas estratfgicas a manos privadas y a las corporaciones transnacionales. Asia costa de la hundir a los chilenos en la pobreza, los monopolios norteamericanos estan sacando grandes ganancias. Recientemente La Industria Estatal de Neumaticos (INSA) se ha querellado contra la Goodyear norteamericana y La Corporacion de Fomento para el Desarrollo (CORFO) chilena por expropiacicfn ilegal de propiedad. La CORFO se hfzo cargo de INSA en 1976 ofreciendo compensacion, cosa que hasta el momento no ha cumplido y mas que eso CORFO ha vendido la propiedad de INSA a La Goodyear antes de que la transference legal INSA-CORFO se hiciera. Otro aspecto de la politica entreguista de Pinochet ha sido la anunciacion que los Recolectores de Basura Publicos serfan controlados por empresas privadas y que el publico tendrfa que pagar por este servicio. A esto tambien se suma la explotacion a que los trabajadores de todos los sectores chilenos son sujetos. Desde 1973 ha habido una acumulacion de capital en la economia chilena que esta siendo controlada por lo menos por cinco grupos financieros. Estos, para ver sus deseos realizadoS estan empujando a la poblacion de_Chile a la extrema pobreza. Los ninos hoy se ven mendigando en las calles, mas que eso, como consecuencia de la continua represion sobre la poblacicfn los hijos y familiares de los ciudadanos que han desaparecido, sido arrestado o ejecutado por la junta facista estan sufriendo fuertes trastornos emocionales y mentales. Sectores de chilenos que est£n preocupados por la lamentable condition en que estan viviendo los hijos de los sectores de la represidn, se han trazado como metas la formacion de escuelas de recuperation, como tambien la recuperacion mental de estos. Para esto estan empenados en una campana financiera dentro de Chile tanto como en el extranjero para recaudar dinero y poder invertirlo en esta noble empress

