Rebuttal to - “Why boycott Coors?”
This letter is in response to your editorial “Why Boycott Coors?” in the May 2, 1980 edition of La Voz. The purpose of this writing is to suggest reasons and answer to the question posed by your editorial. Your statement that “the majority of the Hispanic Community is pleased to see that the Coors Foundation is funding worthwhile projects in our community like Christmas baskets for the needy and grants for scholorships for our youth” is evidence, per se, of a paternalistic approach taken by Coors and its minions for too many years. While recognizing that scholarships and Christmas baskets are helpful in the short run, one must seriously question whether human dignity and human rights are furthered in the long run by these token “reparations” for what Coors has publicly acknowledged as a problem area. The bitter strike which ended in the decertification election of Brewery Workers Local 366 was over Coors’ paternalistic concept of management. In addition to labor problems resulting in that strike of 1977-1978, Coors has admitted problems in the area of minority relations especially with Chicanos. As a Coors mouthpiece put it, “We have made an effort to improve relations with the Chicano community, an effort that started before the union strike.” It is not secret (hat Coors has stepped up advertising and other programs to explain to the Chicano community that it is not racist. But this effort, which has included the hiring of Lee Trevino to do some advertising and benefits for Coors, is more form than substance. The billboards which sprang up around Denver in 1979 hailing 1980 as the decade of the Hispanic and which were paid by Coors are a mockery in light of the decade-long Coors boycott by the G.I. Forum and antiunion sentiment of Coors. The appearance of Lee Trevino in Denver on May 19 1980 sponsored by Coors to honor Hispanic athletes in Colorado is a farce in light of the fact that Chicanos, along with other minority peoples, are brutalized by the police in the streets and by schools in those institutions; however, the appearance of “super mex” legitimizes the wrongs to Chicanos since the signing of the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo in 1848 by accentuating the “up by the bootstraps/Horatio Alger” success stories. Chicanos in Colorado have historically worked in fields, in mines, in industry, not as executives, but as laborers and lately as skilled workers. In this respect, one might say that Chicanos generally support unions and the union movement. For anyone to suggest that a company with a strong anti-union bias as Coors through token affirmative action hiring has solved the “problem of discrimination” is incomprehensible, perhaps even naive. What you have suggested by commending and strolling Coors is that Coors ought to require polygraph examinations of employees whenever management desires, that Coors have a free hand in rotating work shifts and layoffs without regard to seniority, and that the treatment of employees is such that “they don’t need unions, we treat them in a fine enough fashion” as Joseph Coors himself said during the strike. You are advocating the antithesis of a self-reliant Chicano community which will determine for itself what direction it will take without the self-serving paternalism of Coors. With your misguided aphorisms, the Chicano of the future will be a good Hispanic employee of Coors who acquiesces implicitly to the dictates of management, or a good Hispanic who takes the Christmas basket or scholarship and before drinking a bottle of Coors’ new line of beer Herman Joseph’s 1868 genuflects in the direction of Golden where the new benefactor replacing religion is located. You declare that the demonstration at the Scholarship fund-raising dance of April 25 was a disgrace. It was a disgrace to allow the Coors Foundation to be a part of the dance. If it created “disunity,” the reason for that disunity ought to be placed where it belongs: on the doorstep of Coors and those Hispanos who believe in their new Haciendado. In July 1977 soon after the strike at Coors started, the American G.I. Forum refused a $50,000 grant from the Coors Foundation because the Forum was in sympathy with the strike. Incidentally, at that time the Foundation, created in 1976 from the estate of the late Adolph Coors Jr., had assets of $52 million. Recipients of funds from this Foundation must be stable, nonpolitical groups according to the executive director of the Foundation in 1978.. This illustrates a fundamental political principle you have conveniently overlooked: Those who control the purse strings, control. “Stable, nonpolitical” within this context obviously means not upsetting the status quo. If this is the position you, as Publisher and General Manager of La Voz, wish to take, then you are no better than the Shah of Iran or Anastazio Samoza of Nicaragua while each was in power. If this is your idea of the Chicano Movement, then you ought to keep your American dream for those who agree with your viewpoint and who accede to the wishes of large corporations.
If you are complacent and supportive of Coors in a democratic society, then you should put your action where your pen drips and inquire how the $52 million from the Coors Foundation is expended beyond buying political support for the status quo; you should ask why the Adolph Coors co. has no outside directors or even why its voting stock is held exclusively by members of the family despite the fact that it is a publicly held corporation with approximately 8,600 shareholders in 1978. It is ironic that you, as a small and purportedly independent newspaper, have come to the defense of a Foundation with assets of approximately $52 million and a company with and advertising budget of approximately $l2 million with assets well in excess of $B2B million and net income in excess of $6B million ranked number 344 in the Fortune 500 largest U.S. industrial corporations 1979. But as you pointed out “this is America, a free country.” To paraphrase Richard Gonzales of C.E.D.A., you have first amendment rights, if you truly believe that then print this in full. Your editorial is hardly an inspiration and smacks of an elite attitude found among those Hispanics who have forgotten the struggles of the past decades and who have deserted Chicano progress. Joseph Sandoval

