Women Fight Back
The Second National Conference on Violence Against Women, to be held September 18-21 on Denver's Auraria campus, will be a forum for professionals, victims and concerned individuals to work together to end violence against women. In the wake of last year's Conference which attracted over 500 people and brought international attention to violence against women, this year's Conference will continue to address acts of violence committed against women as a single social phenomenon as well as focus on practical solutions to problems and expand on traditional concepts of the issue. Conference keynote speakers include Andrea Dworkin, author of "Woman Hating" and "The New Woman's Broken Heart", who will address "Male Power and Pornography" and Kenyari Bellfield, a private therapist active in the battered women's movement in Minnesota, who will speak on racism, sexism and the battered woman. Victims of rape and battering will also share their perspectives during a panel on "Women as Victims of Violence" which will be moderated by Marjorie Leidig, Ph.D., a Boulder-based clinical psychologist who has worked in the area of violence against women since 1974. Workshops will be conducted on such topics as roots of violence against women, politics of pornography, incest, genital mutilation, prostitution, the impact of energy development on battering in rural areas, developing support services for service providers, lesbians as service providers, clients and advocates, feminist therapy, working with or without the legal system, funding, legislation, organizing for action, etc. One day will be devoted to addressing the special needs of minority and ethnic women. A "Take Back the Night" march is planned for conferents and the community to declare the right to feel and be safe on the streets at night. Persons who are interested in  presenting a workshop at the Conference should send an outline by July 31 to the Programming Committee, National Conference on Violence Against Women, P.O. Box 18014, Denver, Colorado 80218. Fees for registration before August 31 are $40 sponsoring (fees includes sponsorship of a person who is unable to pay), $25 regular and $10 limited income. Registration fees at the Conference $50 sponsoring, $35 regular and $l5 limited income. Tickets will be available for individual keynote sessions. Agencies actively involved in planning the Conference are American Friends Service Committee; Associated Women Students, of Metropolitan State College; Center for Education, Metropolitan State College; Colorado Association for Aid to Battered Women; Colorado Task Force on Women and Alcoholism; Denver Native Americans United; Five Points; Community Center; Gateway Battered Women's Lesbians-Colorado; Mi Casa; Park East Comprehensive Community Mental Health Center; Rocky Mountain Planned Parenthood; Safe House for Battered Women; Servicios de la Raza; Sexism Committee of the Colorado Division of Mental Health; W.A.S. Alternatives to Family Violence; and Women in Crisis. For additional information contact Barbara Millman at (303) 388-4268, or write Conference, P.O. Box 18014, Denver, Colorado, 80218.

