On behalf of the minority and 3rd world students, staff, and organization, we want to address ourselves to the deliberate attempt by the University’s administration to eliminate the full potential of the Summer Institute Program by not fulfilling the commitments previously made by the University’s administration. Furthermore, we see this action as part of an overall attempt by C.U.’s administration to eventually liquidate 3rd world students from this university. Because of the historic discrimination faced by 3rd world students in the educational system, because of the high attrition rate, and because of the overall education the summer institute was developed to address these problems. The summer institute was not a gift from the university administration, but exists as a result of the struggle of Chicanos and other minority students over the past 10 years. An end or any cutbacks of the summer institute program will result in both a decrease in the population of 3rd world students to an unprecedented level and a higher attrition rate for the first year students. For any first year student who has not had the benefit of the summer institute the chances for lower G.P.A.’s is increased. Presently, there are less than 700 Chicanos students at C.U. out of 22,000 students. This represents a mere 2 percent in a state where Chicanos constitute 30 percent of the population. Furthermore, this figure stands in contrast to the fact that less than 10 years ago there were nearly 2,000 Chicano students on campus. We are using this example to place emphasis on this situation, however, this is a reality facing ali minorities at C.U. Therefore, in light of this situation we demand the following: 1) That the Summer Institute receive full funding ($300,000) without any cuts in any other programs benefiting minority students. 2) That Summer Institute for Chicano Law Students be given full funding. 3) That full funding for the summer of 1981 Summer Institute Program be guaranteed. 4) We demand that federal work study monies be appropriated for full staffing for the Summer Institute. 5) We demand a commitment in writing by March 15th of all our above mentioned demands. These demands are endorsed by the following organizations and others: Chicano Business Students Assoc. Chicano Law Students Farm Labor Task Force Migrant Action Program United Mexican American Students OYATE (Native American Group) El Diario de la Gente (newspaper)

