Barrios unite in East L.A.
Vatos sat on the benches in the lush green park area of the Cal-State campus, playing guitar and singing East L.A. barrio rock and roll, in the style of Ruben and the Jets. Children chased the pigeons from the sidewalks. Under the shade of the auditorium building Senoras talked and showed pictures of their sons, who had been beaten by the police. Young women sold t-shirts, buttons, posters, and bumper stickers to raise money for their organizations. Others gave away literature on various subjects. Petitions were circulated. On February 17, 1980, about 500 people of all ages and from many places got together in Los Angeles to plan for the 1980 Commemoration of the August 29 Moratorium to be held August 30,0 f this year. The crowd included about twenty people from the Boulder community, who made their way across Aztlan in various ways in order to participate and learn. Here, they were being exposed to a society that was completely different to the Denver - Boulder scene. lt was fun, and educational, and existing. Not everything was easy. Most of the Boulder people had gone over in cars, and the trip was a long one, leaving town on Thursday evening and finally pulling into L.A. late Friday night. Fernando and Orosco, our hosts when we arrived were busy trying to figure out what to do with thirty people in their living room.
Many were from the Northern areas of Califas, and had been driving through a rain storm that would continue to soak us for the rest of the weekend. Everybody was tired, so they crashed out right away. Some people wanted to have a beer or get high, but the rules were against it, and the neighborhood was dead anyway. Saturday was a free day. People could go sightseeing or whatever. Some went to visit friends, others went to see the beach or the town. The rain was heavy, but the people enjoyed seeing so many murals on the walls and buildings, as well as all the Raza working in the Mexican restaurants, bars, and stores. Most of the people only spoke Spanish
A free dinner and registration were scheduled for Saturday evening, just as everyone was pulling back into headquarters. Unfortunately, the rain had flooded the place it was supposed to be at and the local organizers took quite a while before they could get things together. Speakers and a slide show followed with the group breaking up about 11:00 pm. Some people again had a hard time finding a comfortable place to crash. Some stayed at the meeting hall. Others were able to stay with some of the local people. Juan and Carmen made room for three of us. The conversations we had with them lasted into the night and started again in the morning. Juan was assisting with logistics for the organizing conference. He was also worried about the lunch preparation for the next day, which Carmen was helping him with so he wouldn’t be overwhelmed with responsibility. During the evening we discussed our backgrounds, how most Gente from Colorado had come from northern New Mexico, and southern Colorado, how we were employed and how we were exploited. Carmen has spent all her life in L.A. She wondered how life would be in Colorado’s rural areas. 1 tried to describe it to her. 1 wondered how life would be in L.A. We discussed Chicano politics, finding that we felt the same way about almost everything, “one doesn’t have to liquidate his nationalistic feelings in order to be a part of the people’s struggle, ” she said.
We finally had sunshine on Sunday. The air was clean, the trees, grass, and plants were green. Quite a change from the freezing artic weather we had left back in our part of Aztlan. The workshops were slow in getting started, but it gave the people a chance to check each other out and discuss issues. There were more people there on Sunday, with many coming from other California communities for the day. Each workshop was well attended. Many of the issues were ones we are all acquainted with- police repression, student cutbacks, and immigration problems. Others were of problems that are not often encountered by locals- labor organizations, junior and senior high school Chicano organizations. Barrio warfare. Boulder people contributed to some of the workshops. The people from
Chama told of our land struggle. Over a dozen news media people formed the National Chicano Cacus. Areas of common concern were recognized, and plans for the 1980 Commemoration of the August 29, moratorium were discussed. The conference was a success for those who were able to go. Many of the people who attended had worked on fundraisers for their organizations in order to attend. Others received funds in other ways. The students who attended were members of various campus groups that are interested in the future of the Chicano Student Movement. M.A.P.,U.M.A.S.,F.L.T.F.,and EL DIARIO were all represented as well some Colorado community based groups. Students who are interested in attending the Commemoration should become involved with their student groups now, while they are still in the planning stages of the trip. Many students have become excited about becoming involved with a new “National Chicano Student Awareness”. If you are one who might like to go, please contact your student organization.
A dozen Chicano newspapers participated in the Media workshop, and created a news network to assist each other in news coverage of important issues.
Various Chicano organizations from Califas attended and gave input and a different perspective to the issues at the conference.
Students register for workshops at Cal-State University at Northridge.
Workshops were well attended, and included presentations by community groups from Brighton and Chama Colorado, as well as discussion groups on immigration, labor issues, and police repression.
The success of the conference was in pari due to the great variety of people in attendance —old, women, men, youth and children from many walks of life students, teachers, workers, and mothers.
Photos by El Diario staff

