The Sante Fe Prison riot
an inside view...
Denver--Mass support is being mobilized for the mostly Chicano prisoners and their families in the aftermath of the February 2-4 rebellion at the New Mexico State Penitentiary in Santa Fe. The rebellion, which was in response to the intolerable prison conditions, destroyed most of the prison and left 33 prisoners dead. Chicano community groups and organizations are assisting families who have not been able to find out if their sons or brothers are alive or where they have been relocated. They are demanding that there be no reprisals against the prisoners. A demonstration was held on Thursday, February 14, at the state legislature in Santa Fe. It was palled by the Santa Fe Alliance-part of the Mount Taylor Alliance, a coalition of Native American, Chicano and anti-nuclear groups-to address land and nukes issues as well as show support for the prisoners and their families by having people wear black armbands and participate in a 36-hour fast. There is widespread concern for the safety of the prisoners. In the days following the rebellion, groups of 50-100 prisoners were sent off to state prisons in neighboring states and to the federal penitentiary in Marion, Illinois. It is feared that many of the prisoners being shipped out could be easily harmed or “lost,” especially since the authorities still claim there are some 70 prisoners unaccounted for. Activists are also opposing the sensationalism in the news media which depicts the prisoners as savages killing each other. This serves to obscure the conditions in the prison that gave rise to the rebellion, and also creates a hostile atmosphere against the prisoners. In fact, in the wake of the rebellion, surviving prisoners have reported that the killings were carried out by the fascist, all-white gang, the Aryan Brotherhood, mainly against Chicanos and Blacks. Inhuman conditions gave rise to rebellion. The rebellion and the 11 demands issued by the prisoners sharply exposed the unbearable conditions at Santa Fe. The prison is located in the heart of the oppressed Chicano nation where Chicanos, Mexicans, and Indians suffer intense oppression and poverty. Over 1,100 prisoners were crammed into the prison, although the facility was built to hold only 800. Four and five men were often crowded into cells designed for two, with many prisoners forced to sleep on the floor. The prison was infested with cockroaches, mice and rats. Food was beans or potatoes, three times a day, thrown onto the floor, cold. The prisoners lacked adequate work, recreation and visiting rights. The guards are notoriously racist and abusive. A former prison psychologist described them as “insensitive, disrespectful,” and said they perpetuated an atmosphere of “random sadism.” The Aryan Brotherhood ran rampant in the prison, attacking and raping prisoners. UNITY has also learned that the state’s new head of corrections, Adolf Saenz, has a 17-year history with the Agency for International Development (AID)-a CIA cover. He spent time in El Salvador, then was head of the Inter-American
Police Academy (a school of torture and repression) in the Panama Canal Zone, and was Chief of Public Safety of AID in Uruguay. He returned to the U.S. in 1975, working for a number of federal agencies including the Customs Department Patrol as a deputy. Local prisoners’ rights organizations report that in the recent period before the rebellion, repression had increased inside the prison. The February 2-4 rebellion was not the first time the prisoners at Santa Fe resisted or rebelled. After the 1971 massacre at Attica, half the prisoners at Santa Fe held a sit down solidarity strike. Six hundred prisoners staged a rebellion in 1976. In 1978 the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed a class action suit against the prison over the conditions. At the time of the rebellion, there had been no concrete results from negotiations between the ACLU and the state authorities. In the February rebellion the prisoners put forth 11 demands concerning overcrowding, food, visiting rights, disciplinary procedures, and a demand for no retaliations. But the prisoners’ demands were pushed into the background as the authorities fed the news media horror stories about the killings inside the prison. During and since the rebellion, the state has shown nothing but callous disregard for the prisoners’ families. Many relatives gathered outside the prison grounds and tried to get information about the conditions of the prisoners, but the authorities would not help them. On Tuesday, February 5, the families angrily confronted prison officials and when they got no response, they blocked the road to the prison. Prison officials attacked them with National Guardsmen and dogs, and forcibly dispersed the families from the area. In the days following the rebellion, the prisoners were forced to sleep outdoors in the prison yard with only thin blankets. They had very little food and no medical care until Wednesday, February 6. One prisoner stated he had only one hot dog and two glasses of water in two days. The prisoners were finally moved back inside the prison when it snowed February 8, to await relocation. More repression to come Though the details of and reasons for what happened during the rebellion may not be clear for some time, the authorities are certain to utilize the rebellion—and the killings-as a justification for more repression in the prison and in the state generally. Such repression and a more reactionary atmosphere are necessary for the ruling class to push through their plans for New Mexico-the construction of the country’s first nuclear waste site and the deployment of the MX missile. Eight-five percent of the state’s population is opposed to these measures. Governor Bruce King has called for a grand jury investigation into the rebellion, and has vowed to prosecute “those responsible.” The news media’s sensationalism about the killings creates a hostile atmosphere against the prisoners. Given the situation, Chicano, Mexican and Native American prisoners’ rights groups and other progressive forces will be stepping up their efforts to build support for the Santa Fe prisoners.
Editor's Note: This article was reprinted from the February issue of Unity newspaper.

