Financial aid attacks E.O.P.
The Minority Students on the University of Colorado campus have consistently, each semester, received some sort of bad news concerning their programs. This semester Michael Alexander, Director of Financial Aid, disclosed that funds for work study positions for summer employment were exhausted. Since the appointment of Alexander as Financial Aid Director, minorities and the programs they belong to have been under severe attack, according to the United Mexican American Students (UMAS). During the summer semester of 1979 more than 300 students protested against the Financial Aid Office, demanding the resignation of Alexander because of his deliberate incompetency to award the Summer Institute students with financial assistance. According to Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) officials, some students went as much as ten weeks of a twelve week program without any money for personal and living expenses. Many students were discouraged from coming back in the Fall. These same students who applied for the fall semester of 1979, returned only to find out they had been awarded work study grants and repayable loans, instead of regular federal grants. This was the first time in the ten year history of EOP that freshmen students were obligated to work during their first year in college. Work study grants ranged from $700 to as much as $2,500 for most financial aid students. This requires a minimum of 17 to 20 hours of work per week. UMAS Chairperson, Andrea Lucero told El Diario that Alexander knew by the end of the Fall í79 semester that funds would be exhausted. Lucero further stated that UMAS would avoid Alexander and take the issue directly to James Corbridge, Vice Chancellor of the University. The UMAS Student Organization released a list of guarantees they intend for the C.U. administration to comply with. The following are: 1) Guarantee that Michael Alexander be placed under proper supervision, and that he not be allowed to serve in a policy making capacity. 2) Guarantee adequate financial aid money for Summer Institute students, and guarantee money for work study positions as needed for the Summer Institute Programs, before May. 3) Guarantee EOP freshmen students are given priority for financial aid, free of work study. 4) Guarantee that if Financial Aid money is not ready for EOP Summer Institute students by June 6, that other provisions be made for books and living expenses as well. Lucero stated that if their demands were neglected by the C.U. administration it would indicate a bias towards ridding C.U. of the minority Summer Institute program, and that further action would have to be taken by the students.













