Land struggle continues
At a recent meeting between U.S. Rep. Ray Kogovsek, D-Colo., and representatives of the Land Rights Council the Congressman said he would be in favor of a land trade which would allow for the return of the 77,524 acre Mountain Tract to the people of Costilla County. The land in question was held as common lands under the Sangre de Cristo Land Grant until 1960 when Jack Taylor bought the land. Kogovsek suggested a trade of federal land elsewhere in the country, probably in the east, for the land now held by Taylor. He said that although he believes Taylor obtained the lands legally, he shouldn't have been able to do so because they belonged to the local residents. At an earlier meeting, Mike Lopez, a Kogovsek aide, suggested that perhaps the lands could become a wilderness area protected by the federal government. Kogovsek feels that under any exchange, the Costilla County land should be under federal control. According to Gene Martinez, a staff member of the Land Rights Council who attended the Jan. I meeting, the idea of a trade has been proposed before, but was found to be unacceptable to the residents of the area. Martinez said the people want to know how their rights and privileges will be protected under federal control.
According to Ray Otero, Project Developer for the Land Rights Council, the idea of a trade has been unacceptable in the past. "Taylor should be required to pay back the people the thousands of dollars worth of land use that has been denied them," Otero said. "How can you determine how much economic damage Taylor's presence has caused? How many sheep and cattle would people have now if they still had access to the Mountain Tract? Rather than pay Taylor or trade him for land of equal value, he should be made to pay the people back," Otero said. Otero said, however, he was glad to see that Colorado Chicano legislators are taking an interest in the issue. Recently a group of Colorado State legislators endorsed the efforts of the Land Rights Council to regain the land and U.S. Senator Gary Hart's office has made inquiries about the issue. "The people want the land back to use the way they always did, they don't want the land to be controlled by either Taylor or the Feds," Otero said. If the land was to become a Wilderness area protected by the federal government, the people of Costilla County could not use the land as before because hunting would be prohibited and motorized vehicles would not be allowed in the area, thus thwarting the gathering of wood from the Mountain Tract.

