Editorials
Why Boycott Coors?
The demonstration protesting Coors Beer held at the Scholarship fundraising dance April 25 was not really a protest of Coors, but actually a protest against Hispanics working to raise money for our youth. It was definitely a back-step for the Chicano Movement as it tended to create disunity among "la gente de la raza." How disgraceful for Chicanos to demonstrate at a fund-raising function which had been organized by their brothers from LULAC, C.E.D.A. and C.H.E. In support of their demonstration, marchers offered hand-out which contained only accusations about Coors without back-up of evidence. They claimed that Coors is ì(dividing) Hispanic Community by buying Hispano prostitutes with pennies while he uses his real wealth to cut programs in Congress that help our communities.î They complained that ìCoors funds support the election of conservative and rightwing congressmen and senators, who strongly support military and pentagon expenditures while cutting Social service budgets.î We say that this is America, a free country, and that Coors is entitled to his political and religious beliefs even if they are more conservative than ours.
If the protestors really want to accomplish some change in where the Coors foundation spends its money--then they should spend their time by writing to Joe Coors personally with real facts as to why Congressional spending for military purposes should be cut in favor of projects that will help people. We believe that the majority of the Hispanic community is pleased to see that the Coors Foundation is funding worth-while projects in our community like Christmas baskets for the needy and grants for scholarships for our youth. We, the publishers of LA VOZ, wish to go one step further and commend the efforts of Coors Corporation, first of all, for their recent push towards affirmative action in hiring. Because of this new attitude on the part of Coors to encourage .hiring of Spanish-surnamed persons, we feel that their problem of discrimination, which was the original impetus for the G.I. Forum-backed Hispanic boycott of Coors beer, has been solved. Finally, we think that Coors Corporation deserves commendation for their outstanding support of minority business contracting programs like C.E.D.A. and the Minority Enterprise, Inc. Coors Corp. has provided a good example for other major corporations in the Denver—Colorado region.

