East Los Angeles, 6000 Strong
ing chants such as ‘Chicano power,’Hell no we won’t go, we won’t fight for Texico,’ and ‘The people united will never be defeated.’ Spectators all along the march route, standing in front of the closed down shops, were chanting along with the marchers. Viejitos y viejitas in balconies above were clenching their fists in unity. Salazar Park named after Ruben Salazar, one of the men who was killed in the 1970 Chicano Moratorium. Speakers for different struggles delivered their messages to the people who came from all over to hear. Messages came from people like Joe Silva who spoke of the Vough Coach lettuce strike, Dora Esquibel, who spoke of the student struggles in the universities. Bill Wahpahpah of the American Indian Movement, who spoke of unity between the Chicano and Indian peoples, and Ray Otero, who spoke of the Land Struggle and its quest to regain stolen land. Other speakers spoke Out against the draft of Chicano youth, the discriminatory educational system that our children have to go through, the brutal killing of Chicanos in the barrios, immigration policies that torment the mejicanos who try to survive here in the United States, and economic platforms of the presidential candidates that will cripple the social programs that the poor of this country are forced to live off of. The successfulness of a nonviolent demonstration was challenged by group of people who were members of the Communist Worker’s Party (CWP) and the Revolutionary Communist’s Party (RCP). Both organizations were banned from the march because of disruptions caused by them in other Chicano political gatherings. Although the group knew they were not allowed in the march, they made several attempts to enter by forcible and violent means. Security teams involved in the march, however, were able to hold out the intruders. The violence that the CWP and RCP displayed could have endangered many lives if the police had intervened, causing an outbreak of violence as they did in 1970. The whole environment of the Chicano Moratorium brought about implications of unity and momentum to continue the struggle. Most people saw the Moratorium as a stepping stone to work toward a self-determining Chicano nation and an end to the imperialistic oppression of our people. "Que viva la unidad de la gente Chicana.”

