"La Sierra" Birth Right of Cultural Heritage
"We moved from Denver back to San Luis because we could not make it in Denver. We need our land in order to survive" said Agatha and Ray Medina of El Rito. First plaintiffs to file legal action to reclaim the rights of the heirs to the Sangre de Cristo Land Grant,(Taylors Mountain Tract) August 18,1980. Into the starry night, high above the Land Rights Council building, the snow-capped crown of the Sangre de Cristo mountains gracefully sweep away to northern New Mexico. Resting in the arms of the lower slopes, now lightly flecked with snow, dim farm lights seemed to lift their heads like fire flies here in Southern Aztlan. It is for these mountains, the mother of "Tierra y Libertad", the people of El Valle say, that the last crucial battle in Colorado for the historical and cultural rights to the land, that they say was stolen from them, will be waged. And that Taylor (formerly from North Carolina), feudal overlord of the mountain tract, and spokesman for that callous force called unrestrained profit, will be that last opponent. But they say he has met his match in the people of El Valle. They swear they will fight to the bitter end. How eloquently, Reies Tijerina, gave the reason for such firm determination when he said in Spanish, "Those who live close to the land, know about the land, but those who live far from the land, don't know that the land is a marvel, a richness, a power."
To the people of El Valle the land is like a religion whose full meaning lies in the birth right of cultural heritage, in the dreams, and in the visions that are beyond the pale of mere words. These ethereal land rights, they say cannot be taken away by Taylor and his "legal mafia". They can only be taken away by departing from the world of the living. "Taylors mountain tract". Brian Sanchez said on a walk to a stream at the end of his property that lies directly below the mountain tract, "has destroyed that aura of goodness that the common use of the land had created, and has negated the goodwill and lighthearted rapport between the people that use that land for a common good." "The people with land are like a child with a mother," Reies Tijerena said, "content and at peace with the world". The easy way out for people of El Valle would be for them to move to Denver and become another group of rootless cosmopolitans, suspended in the pollution and misfortunes of an anglo society out of control. They should forget about the beauty of the Sangre de Cristo mountains in the last light of sunset. They should forget about La Tierra, and about the warmth of La Gente that gave them strength, that protected them from fear and doubt, and forever, say goodbye to Aztlan.

