Los Seis Remembered as Brilliant and Articulate
Seven years ago in Boulder, Colo., the May 1974 events there took the lives of six companeros y companeras, hermanos y hermanas, de raza y de clase. They left with us a collective memory of our six companeros as a dedicated group of activists. We also have our personal memories of each one of these people, based on our mutual, shared experiences with them. Ask La Familia Martinez and they will recall Reyes as a warm, sensitive, loving brother ready to share the simplest joys and sorrows that every familia experiences. Without a doubt, the familias of the other five companeros will recall their children in the same way. To their friends, they were loyal companeros, taking part in the experiences and good times of funloving people. To those who knew them as students, they will be remembered as brilliant, articulate people. To their community, to their clients, to the people with whom they worked, it will be remembered that each one, individually and collectively, struggled to protect and defend the rights of the people against the abuses of the rich, powerful and influential. But most of all, we remember them as people of action, whether they were lawyers, poets, journalists, students or community organizers. Whatever they did, they hit it head on. Those who today wish to detract from Los Seis cannot cast aspersions on them because they didn’t act. Los Seis were not “day-after critics”: they were active participants. We must recognize that each of Los Seis was a victim of repression. Florencio and Teran had both been thrown out of the University of Colorado at Boulder for their efforts to democratize the university. On several occasions, they were victims of attempted legal frame-ups. (Today we see that other students, who were also expelled from CU as a result of a campaign for parity and Chicano Studies on campus have launched the first stages of their legal battle against the university). There was no reason for them to have been forced off campus. Their legal rights violated eight years ago, and only today is the legal system vindicating those rights. After his brother Kiko left in 1973, Reyes was constantly harassed and victimized by the police in their efforts to locate Kiko. Reyes was the victim of a frame-up on drug charges; his law office was broken into. Neva Romero had a history of activism at CU where she was involved in student government on campus. Neva was a strong advocate of bilingual education, a concept for which a long struggle was waged before it became accepted. Today we see a rollback of these programs. Una Jaakola was a sympathizer, and one of those persons who are not the spokepersons but who give substance to the concept of popular struggle.
Francisco Dougherty was a new arrival in Colorado, but he brought with him a history of activity in his community in support of struggle. Antonio Alcantar is a living symbol of the May, 1974, events in Boulder. He survived, and today bears the physical burden of the historic even what took the lives of Los Seis de Boulder.
Seven years later in 1981, the repression of our people continues: who Fills the prisons? Who occupies the jobs with lowest pay, hardest and least desirable work conditions? Whose members stand in the unemployment lines? Who continues to be excluded from equal education? Who crys , ,pyt Sot .basic needs, such as adequate housing and nutrition? And, if this system fails to meet our physical needs, how much more does it fail to satisfy our intellectual, cultural and spiritual needs? This May, as we recall the sentimientos of our comrades, we must remember that it is not merely our duty to commemorate Los Seis, but to follow in their footsteps!

