Why Is Herner Free?
We have again had the displeasure to see the racist justice court system of the United States in action. The system expects us to believe that justice is sacred when at every turn we are confronted with the blatant examples of police brutality and repressive judicial policies that fill the jails and prisons with our brothers and other repressed racial and social groups. During the trial of Glen Herner, an all-white middle class jury, chosen from an all-white group of potential jurors, condoned the murder of two innocent Chicano men. We are supposed to believe that the prosecution will give a fair effort to prosecute, when it is a part of a system that Herner is a part of. It was resoundingly apparent to anyone that sat through the proceedings that the profound evidence showed that Herner shot Cordova knowing that he was unarmed and fleeing the scene. Although the attending physician was negligent in his care of Cordova, the fact remains that Herner’s bullet caused the damage that killed Cordova. The doctor was just another link in a system that is deliberately prejudice against groups that are economically or physically different from the Anglo norm. We must learn from this and all the judicial processes pertaining to police crime against our people. And that working within the system is asking for a slap in the face. We are supposed to be pacified by the rhetoric of judicial clowns that are actually trying to practice genocide on our people. The time has come to unite and rise up against the police state that threatens the existence of our culture and the lives or our brothers, sisters, and children. For if we sit by passively, it is a sign to our oppressors that we are lame and weak. So stand up and fight. DISARM THE POLICE, ARM THE PEOPLE. UMAS has ever had. It was well known by UMAS and the university administration that the UMAS Organization was under constant surveillance by police and the FBI. Investigations into the bombing was quickly closed, alleging that the six killed were assembling bombs, and accidently killed themselves. Although UMAS has been successful in their 12 year history, (as far as producing professionals, doctors lawyers business people etc. Our task is not complete. Since the bombings in 1974 we have been under constant attack by university administration. The bombings was a successful scare tactic to keep Chicano students from getting involved with their programs. The university has slowly began taking from our once strong organization, by taking away credit from our EOP courses, by cutting our student fee funds through EC-4, and worst of all by cutting our recruitment capabilities. With the Reagan administration we can expect more financial cuts. We already know that financial aid recipients (Chicanos) will be effected greatly. Every year since 1974 UMAS enrollment has dwindled. Look at this year’s Summer Institute, we have less than 75 students in the program. As for the new students here for the Summer Institute, you are only here because of the Civil Rights Movement and its demand that this university admit minorities. And you are only here because a few Chicanos started UMAS with as goal to insure that their brothers and sisters (you) will have an education for generation to come. Perhaps the question you must ask is not “Why should I support UMAS?” but rather, “How can I support UMAS?” You can start by going to the UMAS General Assemblies, by going to UMAS Board of Directors meetings and by attending and supporting functions and events that UMAS sponsors. So ask questions and be involved with UMAS. We want to preserve our program for our brothers and sisters and for our children. It has only been' 12 years since this university has begun to look at the educational rights of minorities. We cannot allow them to dismantle our programs as they wish to. We must expand UMAS, but first we must have the support of our students. It is blatant racism that this system will not allow a large minority such as ours to effectively educate our people. We must continue to demand and fight for an opportunity to educate the large masses of our people.

