Anti-Reagan Budget Rally Unites Minorities In Struggle
A March and rally was held last Saturday, June 6 at 10:30 AM. A crowd of about 300 people began the march from East high school. The crowd continued, to the chant of “buy food not guns” down East. Colfax Avenue to the state capital building. The protest was organized by the Alliance for Basic Human Needs against Reagan’s budget cuts. The Alliance is a coalition of concerned citizens and groups addressing the issues of the Reagan Administration’s proposed budget shifts and program cuts and their impact upon the people of Colorado. Essentially, their mission is to see a material commitment to the continuation of programs designed to foster jobs, food, housing, health care, education, safe and affordable energy and advocacy of all citizens. It is made up of 65 non-profit organizations. The solidarity speeches made by many of Colorado’s most prominent citizens, during the rally held on the south steps of the golden domed building, felt the Reagan Administration should look at the real problems of this society, and not take food from the poor and hungry. The real problem was stated as the republican controlled state and federal government. The Republican controlled Colorado legislature has cut staff from the Office of Civil Rights, from the Neighborhood Health Centers: The Fort Logan mental health facility was not funded properly and two million dollars was given to a commission to cut government spending, said one of the speakers. The state government has also invited national corporations into our state. Another speaker said that these conglomerates are not doing their fair share. Those corporations who come into our state to exploit must pay their fair share, and must be made to understand they must not exploit the people or the land and they must create energy efficient conservation. On an information sheet distributed at the rally, was this opinion on Reagan’s “Economic Recovery Plan”. According to the plan the goal is: To reorganize many existing social and health programs into one or few block grants to be administered by the Department of Health and Human Services. The intent is to cut social welfare programs and give private enterprise incentives to take over the task of providing jobs and programs to aid poor people. These incentives would probably take the form of tax breaks and subsidies to promote higher production which in turn stimulates the economy, making more money available for business invest and theoretically making it possible to hire more poor people. There is no guarantee that private enterprise will provide more benefits or job training to the people. It is doubtful that the private sector will take up the slack left by the cutback of social programs by government. They stand to benefit greatly from the tax breaks, and subsidies will give very little in benefits for the poor, the unskilled, and minorities. The simple facts related by the speakers were many. One fact being that the cuts were going to affect more poor. The Reagan Administration wants to cut essential benefits to poor and middle income families, while increasing military spending. They also wish to shift the wealthy’s share of the tax burden to poor and working class families. Human Service proposed reductions will include: $B-12 million for medical care; $2l-25 million in food stamp benefits affecting 6000
Human Service proposed reductions will include: $B-12 million for medical care; $2l-25 million in food stamp benefits affecting 6000 families; $l5 million in CETA funds; $l0 million in AFDC benefits; $lO-13 million of nutrition; $l6-18 million for child welfare energy assistance, health centers, vocational rehabilitation, and alcoholic and drug abuse programs. Other cuts include: $l2-13 million to aid schools including programs for disadvantaged youth, handicapped and adult education; $67-80 million in student aid; $35.4 million in housing programs; $2.7 million in matching grants for the Colorado Land and Water Conservation Fund; $2.9 million in legal assistance for the poor; $24 million in space and solar technology development aid. The unity between the handicapped, poor, elderly, Black and Chicano was visible throughout the crowd Saturday. Many were from the Denver area where an estimated 27.2 percent of Denver’s Black population lives in poverty, 18.8 percent of Denver’s Hispanic population live in poverty, 28.8 percent of the Asian and Native American population live in poverty. Furthermore only 6.0 percent of Denver’s Anglo population live in poverty. (According to figures based on calculations by DO/PE&E, derived from data published by Colorado Division of Employment and Training). One of the closing speakers asked what can we do without an education? Their opinion was that we will become the slaves for the masters. We will always work, but it will become more difficult to attain those things which we need: food, clothing, transportation and education.

