Colorado Migrant Council Hosts Food Drive Concert
The Colorado Migrant Council will be hosting their 4th-Annual Food Drive Concert on June 20, 1981 at the Boulder County Fairgrounds outdoor arena in Longmont, Colorado. The music and entertainment will commence at 12 noon and run continuously until approximately 8:30 p.m. The admission price will be $5.00 and a can of food. Among the many groups to perform will be Little Joe y La Familia a Mariachi Band, Jamedica, Mood Express, Bridges, and a Special Guest Attraction to be announced. Paul Chavez and Dave Gallegos from KBNO Radio Station will host the program. Artist display booths, pottery, and other crafts will be on exhibition and for sale. In conjunction with this event the Council will also be sponsoring a FREE to the public, "Solar and Alternative Energy Fair", from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Fairgrounds. The Colorado Migrant Council will be presenting solar information on a practical applicable level. Information will be given on how to make solar devices out of salvageable materials that can usually be found. For example: How to make a solar hot water heater, Solar food dryer, or Solar panel. With the Reagan Administration's attitude toward low-income food programs, the concert is seen as a very important event to many of the floor of Colorado. The canned food and profits derived from this benefit performance will go to the Colorado Migrant Council Food and Nutrition Program for dispersal to eligible low-income and farmworker families and individuals. In all previous concerts the Council has been able to show a gain and provide emergency food to families and individuals that were in immediate need. In many cases, had the Council not been there no assistance would have been given, The Council was the last resort and because of the generosity of past concert participants, the Council has been able to relieve some of the hunger within the confines of Colorado. In one year the Council helps approximately 1,000 families consisting of approximately 3,500 individuals. All items are given free to eligible participants. We are inviting all interested people to attend for a day of fun and music in the sun. Coolers and food will be allowed into the grandstands but no cans or bottles. Tickets will be available at the gate. Further information may be obtained by calling Frank Montoya at (303) 425-1532 if within the Denver area, or if outside the Denver Metro Area call toll free at 1-800-332-8294. Tickets will also be available through Select-a-Seat Outlets.

