Reawareness of Boycott
NCSC Addresses Coors Issue
The growing concern towards a reimplementation of the boycott on all Coors products, was brought to the attention of this year's third annual National Chicano Student Conference (NCSC), held in Tempe Arizona this last April. The fact that Coors is desperately trying to capture the Chicano market by stepping-up advertising in Barrio areas and producing Coors commercials in Spanish, has put a serious damper on the Boycott. Also, because one Colorado based Chicano Organization called off the boycott, Chicanos from different areas have been misled to believe that the boycott had been discontinued. Students from various Chicano Student Organizations in Colorado are concerned that Coors sales are slowly gaining momentum in Colorado. Coors advertisements have been showing up in Chicano newspapers, magazines, and radio stations. And this year, Coors has begun selling beer at the University of Colorado campus, after a twelve year boycott was broken by a student election. Attempts have also been made by Coors Inc. to sell his beer on the Auraria Campus in Denver, without a student election. Chicano students there quickly demanded that Coors be removed. The focus of Colorado representatives to the Conference, was to bring about a reawareness of the Coors boycott at a national level. Colorado students attending the workshops brought about discussion on Coors and his latest tactics. Support was gained, and eventually resolutions were passed to continue the boycott. Because of Coors' attempt to utilize the media to sell beer to Chicanos, the "Media Communications" workshop, unanimously passed this resolution: "The Coors Corporation of Colorado is supportive of right-wing, paramilitary groups such as the John Birch Society, the KKK and Nazi Party, which are definitely racist and working against the interests of Chicanos. Therefore, we call on all Chicano/Latino publications to refrain from advertising Coors products, which communicates to our people that Coors is a legitimate organization working for the interests of all our people." The "History/Land" workshop also became an excellent setting to discuss the Coors issue. It became apparent to the participants of the workshop that the Adolph Coors Company jeopardizes the existence of Chicano people who still live off the land.
This resolution was passed: Be it resolved that the National Chicano Student Conference is taking a position that condemns the Adolph Coors Brewing Company in Colorado for destroying the potato crop in the Valle de San Luis, which provides the livelihood of many of our gente who live there. The Coors Corporation, through its cloud seeding efforts, has no concern for the destruction of the environment in Colorado or anywhere else and has exhibited a strong policy of supporting anti-environment groups. It is the hopes of the Chicano students in Colorado, that the implementation of the Coors boycott become a nation-wide struggle and that people who attended the Conference, take back the resolutions that were passed against Coors, to Chicano organizations that they represent. Only then can we begin to suppress the racist and fascist right-wing ideas that Coors has historically imposed on the working people.
 
