“White Paper” Statements Denied
A representative of the Democratic Revolutionary Government of El Salvador Victor Rubio said, unequivocally, while speaking before a plenary session of the World Affairs Conference, that the people of El Salvador were seeking their own political path to freedom, and firmly denied “The accusations in the U.S. governments “White Paper” report that there has been communist involvement and arms infiltrated into El Salvador civil war. That no weapons have been sent in by Cuba, or any other socialist governments. That the guerillas only had arms that they had purchased on the legitimate international arms market, or had captured from the Junta.” FDR representative Rubio said Friday “That both the U.S. and the Junta had refused to negotiate with us”, and the Junta had, in reply to their plea for negotiations “Had issued a list of 138 names, of us, that they said were enemies of the people”. “The main reason why the Junta would not negotiate with us is that we have made it perfectly clear that we are not negotiating from a point of weakness. That we are aware that we have the initiative and that despite heavy fighting in the countryside they still have not been able to dislodge us. We know that we will eventually win and that we want to negotiate just to stop killing”. While Victor Rubio said that the platform of the Democratic Revolutionary Government “has a policy of non-alignment”, he also added, “We will seek friends wherever we can, but we will stay independent and will not compromise our principals”. Rubio said “Today the revolutionary movement (the FDR and its allied organizations), because of its firm base, is indestructible and constitutes the only true alternative for the Salvadorean people, who cannot be stopped or swayed in their struggle to win a free homeland in which their most heartfelt wishes will be realized”. Victor Rubio was invited to attend a plenary session on the World Affairs Conference at the University of Boulder, Friday April 10, 1981, and later that same day spoke to the Denver Chapter of CISPES (Committee in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador) on the Auraria Campus.

