Camp-Out Conference Planned For Chama, Co.
On March 2, 1981, a class action suit was filed in Costilla County, in Colorado, on behalf of all the heirs and successors to the Sangre de Cristo Grant seeking to give the local community access to common lands that have been closed to them since 1960. The suit names Jack Tarland Taylor, a rich businessman from North Carolina, as the principal defendant. The land in question is nearly 100,000 acres of beautiful mountains and pastures in Southern Colorado that extend some 40 miles to the New Mexico border; part of the original Sangre de Cristo Grant that consisted of over one million acres granted by Mexico in 1844. After the area came under the control of the United States following war with Mexico, the Sangre de Cristo Grant was confirmed by Congress in 1861. Part of the stipulations of the grant was that a certain portion of the land, today known as La Sierra or the Mountain Tract, was to be set aside to be used communally to provide for the basic necessities of the settlers. And from the time of the original grant in 1844 until 1960, the Mountain tract was used in common by the residents providing them grazing pastures, water, wood, and wild game and fish for sustenance. In 1960, when Taylor moved into the area, he agreed on paper to honor the rights of the local communities' to the land. But he quickly ignored his written word, erected barriers and fenced the land, denying the people access to their common lands. Resistance to Taylor has continued for the past 21 years in many forms. The suit filed March 2, is seeking to regain the people's rights to the Mountain Tract through state court action. At the same time, however, the organizing in Costilla County for Chicano land rights is not confined to this court case. The Land Rights Council, a community-based land rights organization in Chama, Colorado, is working to educate others about Chicano land rights, and seeking to build broad based support among all the struggling people. A national land conference, the second in three years, is being planned for July 23-26, 1981, in Chama, to bring together individuals, groups, and organizations interested in uniting, sharing information and building networks to advance land rights and other liberation struggles. The three day affair will include speakers, workshops and entertainment. It will be a camp out on land adjacent to the Mountain Tract. Anyone planning to attend should be prepared with sleeping bags, warm clothes, food and that necessary utensils to stay outdoors for a few days. Some meals will be served during the conference at little or no charge to participants. For more information, contact The Land Rights Council, at Box 149, Chama, Colorado, 81026, (303) 672-3361.

