EDITORIALS
Greed Still Threatens Indian Lands
We must consider all the aspects of the nuclear fuel cycle. We are aware of the contamination that is a result of the nuclear industry. The land, the water, the air, the winds become victim to the deadly radiation. The things of creation must all become victims. Nothing will remain untouched. We are becoming aware of the nuclear danger to physical human life but our awareness of the meaning of the Earth must also be developed. The earth is sacred. Without it we cannot live, we cannot even exist. The Earth gives us life and sustains our life throughout our physical presence on it. To allow the energy corporations to continue their uncaring, unfeeling attack against the land can only ensure the human destruction. There must be more validity to our lives than to just exist for the maximized profit motive of the corporate greed. The victimization of the people reaches all the levels during this nuclear attack being launched against us by members of our own society. We are aware of the deaths of miners, the death of Karen Silkwood and we will, in our own lifetime, see the results of Three Mile Island. This can only be viewed as a form of nuclear war against the people. Aren't the results of the war, death and destruction? People such as Leonard Peltier of the American Indian Movement have been politically imprisoned for their resistance to the corporate land grab of the Indian peoples' land. A very large percentage of the uranium is on Indian peoples' land. When the U.S. government joins the energy corporations in taking uranium from the Indian peoples' land, they are breaking the law. We have treaties, signed between our nations and the U.S. government and these treaties make it illegal for the exploration of our land and our culture without our consent, we have not consented! The government tells us it's alright to break the treaties, but it is not. The treaties are laws and America cannot be a nation of freedom or morality or law or democracy if the laws of treaty are disregarded. If the treaties are just pieces of paper, then so is the Constitution. That is the reality of life. The government discredits the treaties and victimizes the Indian peoples before the uranium leaves the ground. Karen Silkwood was killed because of her opposition to the nuclear attack and that is a part of the public consciousness. Leonard Peltier was jailed for two lifetimes because of his belief in the spiritual encampment in South Dakota in 1975. The result of the firefight was the death of Joseph Stuntz and two FBI agents, Coler and Williams. Leonard Peltier was one of four men charged with premeditated aiding and abetting First degree murder. Two of the men, Dino Butler and Bob Robideau were acquitted of the charges and the third man, Jimmy Eagle, had the charges dropped. Leonard was illegally extradited from Canada and convicted in the kangaroo court of Paul Benson in Fargo, North Dakota. Peltier was convicted of premeditated murder. Murder has never been proven. The day of the fire Fight, the Pine Ridge Tribal Chairman was in Washington D.C. illegally giving away 1/8 of the reservation to the U.S. Department of the Interior. There is uranium on this land. The FBI attack was a diversionary tactic to draw attention away from the land grab. Leonard was convicted not because of guilt, but because the government has to cover, up its illegal activities in the exploitation of Indian peoples' resources. The people of America have an awareness of Karen Silkwood, but we have had a hard time to get the peoples' attention directed to Leonard Peltier. Leonard has not received a fair trial and we need the peoples' help to get a new trial for Leonard. The reality is this racist political attack against Leonard is an attack against all of us. We must work to overcome the divisions by racism, age, sex, class and religion. We are not each other's enemy, we are all the collective victim. This is a time of challenge for the human spirit and we look forward to meeting that challenge, together. We do not have all the solutions but we do know we cannot afford the death of the human spirit. We cannot afford this attack on the Earth. We pray for the people John Trudell International Indian Treaty Council

