INTERNATIONAL
Puerto Rico Continues Struggle For Independence
Since the invasion of Puerto Rico in 1898 by the U.S. Imperialists, Puerto Ricans have been under constant repression. This repression has been met by resistance of the Puerto Rican people. Puerto Ricans have fought against U.S. Imperialism since 1898 to the present. The “Macheteros” fought with U.S. Marines upon their invasion landing at Guanica, they responded with the revolutionary assassination of Colonel Riggs after five Nationalists were killed. In 1950, a time when the Nationalist Party was under direct military attack by the U.S. National Guard, Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola under orders of the Nationalist Party went to Washington D.C. to kill then President Truman, to show to the world the U.S.’s direct involvement in the war going on in Puerto Rico. Upon reaching the temporary residence of Truman, (Blair House) a gun battle ensued leaving one guard and the heroic Torresola dead. In March of 1954, the U.S. Congress passes a decree denying Puerto Rico its independence and states that, “Puerto Ricans no longer desire independence”. The Nationalist Party responded to this by showing to the world that the struggle for independence for Puerto Rico was still very much alive in the hearts and minds of Puerto Ricans, by having Rafael Cancel Miranda, Andres Figueroa Cordero (Now deceased), Irving Rodriguez Florez, and the leader of the
group, Lolita Lebron,stage an armed assault on the U.S. House of Representatives. These four along with Oscar Collazo received lengthy sentences for their actions against the U.S. Imperialist government. They were refused political prisoner status then and were instead treated as common criminals. They all served over 25 years and were recently released back in 1979 after intense pressure on the U.S. government by the people and actions of the underground clandestine organizations. In the past decade the emergence of politico-military organizations such as the (F.A.R.P. - Armed Forces of Popular Resistence, O.V.R.P. - Organization of Volunteers for the Puerto Rican Workers, - Popular Boricua ArmyMacheteros), in Puerto Rico and (F.A.L.N. - Armed Forces for National Liberation in the U.S.. All these clandestine organizations have been waging revolutionary attacks against U.S. interests, military installations and personnel in Puerto Rico as well as in the U.S. Some examples are the revolutionary execution of C.I.A. agent Allen Randell in retaliation for the murder of labor leader Juan Caballero, the bombing of Frances Tavern -Anglers Club in New York after the U.S. had its Gusano agents bomb a cafe in Mayaguez, P.R., killing independentistas, four industrialists died in the New York attack, and the action taken against the Navy just last year, where all the above mentioned clandestine groups working together attacked a Navy bus carrying personel at Sabana Seca, killing two and wounding ten. This action was later stated in a communique was in retaliation for the cowardly assassination of Angel Cristobal Rodriguez, member of the Liga Socialista Puertorriquena (Puerto Rican Socialist League) in Tallahassee, FI. Prison where he was placed after declaring himself a prisoner of war for resisting the Navy’s presence on Vieques, (an island east of P.R.) He was sentenced to six months for tresspassing. He didn’t take part in none of the court proceedings against him. The communique also stated the action was also retaliation for the murders of Arnaldo Dario Rosado and Carlos Soto Arrivi two young independentistas killed in a police ambush in Cerro Maravilla in 1978. This year in April, 11 young independentistas were arrested in Evanston, 111. They were accused of being members of the FALN. Since their arrest they have taken the position of prisoner of war and should be accorded such under U.N. Resolution 33/24, Dec. 8, 1978. Under these U.N. provisions all captured freedom fighters are to accorded P.O.W. status and tried by international tribunals, not imperial courts. They are all now separated and imprisoned in various jails throughout Illinois and the country. This past August, Don Juan Antonio Corretjer of the Liga Socialista Puertorriquena, the
National Liberation Movement (M.L.N.), the Quebec CSN, the Information Committee on Quebec Political Prisoners, M.L.N.-Chicano/Mexicano commission, the National Committee to Free Puerto Rican Prisoners of War, the New Movement in Solidarity with Puerto Rican Independence, the Republic of New Africa, the Canadian Party of Labor, the Committee for Popular Defense-C.D.P.-Mexico, and many others join forces to Petition the United Nations to affirm Puerto Rico's colonial status, and for recognition that the eleven captured freedom fighters be awarded Prisoner of War status. The United Nations Committee on Decolonization, voted 12 favor, 11 abstentions, and 1 absent, on affirming the colonial status of Puerto Rico. The Petition of recognition of the eleven as P.O.W. was not presented at this time, even though all delegates to the U.N. Decolonization Committee heard the various representatives of the independence movements refer to the eleven now being held illegally in Yanki prisons. The Decolonization Committee in its internal dialogue made mention of the eleven and to the seriousness their case represented. Anyone caring to know more about the eleven or want to contribute anything can do so by writing or sending contributions to: The National Committee to free Puerto Rican Prisoners of War, P.O. Box
301, 2520 n. Lincoln Ave., Chicago, 111. 60614 Anyone caring to write to the eleven themselves can do so by writing to: Maria H. Torres No. 39484 Metropolitan Correctional Center 808 Union St. 10th floor San Diego, CA 92101 Maria Rodriguez No. 7157 Ida Luz Rodriguez No. 7165 Dylcia Pagan No. 7166 Carmen Valentin No. 7167 Dwight Correctional Center P.O. Box C Dwight, 1L 62259 Carlos A. Torres No. NO3OOC Luis Rosa No. N 02743 Menard Correctional Center P.O. Box 711 Menard, IL 62259 Elizam Escobar N 02996 Freddie Mendez N 02999 Pontiac Correction Center P.O. Box 99 Pontiac, IL 61764 Adolfo Matos N 02998 Dick Jimenez No. N 0299" Stateville Correctional Center P.O. Box 112 Joliet, IL 60634

