“Mi Casa” Helps Chicanas:
Ready for a Change in Life
What started out as a neighborhood center where Chicana mothers could gather to communicate with other women has developed into a unique program. Mi Casa, 1045 W. 10th, Denver, is a support house for those Chicanas who want to change their life. It provides assistance in transition to those women who no longer want to stay at home but who want to work or attend school, those Chicanas who seek a different life than the homemaker routine. Debbie Pollock, Director of Mi Casa, has great hope in the services the resource center can provide. “I like to sell myself as a business person, to sell Mi Casa as a product.” Debbie sells the Mi Casa concept to various Denver foundations, such as the Piton Foundation. No government funding is spent for classes, job development or for crisis counseling programs. Innovative funding developed by Pollock and Program Coordinator Susan Gaarder, a Menonite volunteer, provides classes in assertive training, drivers education, G.E.D., stress management and job readiness. The majority of classes are free. The attractive nonthreatening hospitality of Mi Casa gives the clients who enter a feeling of “Mi Casa Es Tu Casa”, as existing Chicano tradition. Classes are taught
there to all women who seek the help of the well trained staff and volunteers. Over 10 percent of the clients are displaced homemakers. They may attend the job readiness program for job preparation. The classes are held 3 times per year for 4 weeks, 4 hours per week. The class provides career value clarification, job application assistance, assertive training, job searching skills and offers job referral. Pollock said the main focus is to get women employed in the private sector. “We’ve had a lot of success with this.” Mi Casa has also placed Chicanas in Federal Govern-
ment jobs such as the Post Office and the Department of Interior. A simulated testing program is available to prepare for job placement testing with various agencies. “The majority of the women who seek out Mi Casa want to work” Pollock said. Since clients are assisted with barriers such as child care and transportation and lack of self esteem, we promote the La Familia concept. We must develop “confianza” and self esteem, once that is established then we can start making progress,” Pollock said. Volunteers are needed and welcomed at Mi Casa. “There are millions of things
to get involved in,” stated Pollock. One example is the help needed gathering and distributing clothing from their clothing bank. Juana Bardos, staff member at Mi Casa approached the problems of women with applied psychology. “We try to get young girls to think and prepare their own future.” Through a value change, education and awareness program, Mi Casa assists young Chicanas to understand themselves and their culture. We teach self-image building and we do physical stamina training to put the girls in the non-traditional work force, such as a carpentry apprentice.
We have to get them to believe that they can be successful. Bardos said the majority of women going to the center are between 20 and 30 years of age. They have two or more children, no skills, and a limited formal education. We have to deal with the cultural drawbacks. We attempt to change the attitudes of young girls arid mature women towards school, business and government. Mi Casa recruits and keeps close contact with Denver Public Schools. Baker, Byers and West which are located in Denver’s West side. In the present light of the closing of the other Denver area Women Crisis Shelters, Mi Casa still holds its own providing alternative courses and reality structure counseling for women in crisis. Carolyn Sanchez of 821 Galapago, a community oriented person, went to Mi Casa as a volunteer. With five children, three who are home, she felt a need to do something for herself and others. Describing Mi Casa Sanchez said, “Anyone who has walked into Mi Casa can walk out and say that they learned something whether through classes or through help. Classes are really put together beautifully and are well organized.” Sanchez agrees that Mi Casa keeps clients aware and builds up morale for community women.
Debbie Pollock, director of “Mi Casa” in front of the center in Denver, which provides support and assistance for Chicanas who “want to change their lives”.

