UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO MINORITY STUDENT COALITION
Brothers and Sisters, We have come to the most critical point in the long struggle over the defense of our E.O.P. programs. The end of the semester is at hand. There are those among us who would propose that we need to repudiate the spirit of the struggle and adopt the spirit of compromise. It must be remembered that the few things that we have gained were not gifts, we got them because we fought for them. And the fight is not over Multinational unity is the only way we are going to get the demands that we put forward at the beginning. Minority Coalition: March 1977 The issues and necessity for multinational student unity are as real today as they were for our brothers and sisters in 1977. Once again the future of E.O.P. is on the firing line and once again students have resolved to take up the issues ana defend the E.O.P. programs against attack The revitalization of the Minority Student Coalition came about as a response to the concerns of a handful of minority E.O.P. students - amidet rumors of the impending demise of E.O.P. and the loss of a minority administrative position. More than sixty students attended the first general assembly. In an attempt to develop and or enhance student understanding of the importance of E.O.P.'s existence and ensured continuity, speakers: Jose Calderon, Kathy Konda, and Charlie Cambridge (former E.O.P. students) gave historical perspectives of the struggles engaged in by minority students in the past to obtain and maintain E.O.P. At the conclusion of the assembly, it was clear that more information was needed to answer the how's and why's of the current E.O.P. crisis. As a result, a number of general assemblies and committee meetings were held with E.O.P. directors and staff. Within a month's time E.O.P. students, staff, and directors were working side-by-side symbolizing a unified challenge to the attacks on E.O.P.
At present, a "skeletal" plan has been established to lay the groundwork for the future of E.O.P. In general, the plan consists of an E.O.P. long term planning board, improved and expanded mechanisms for student input, and coalition building among faculty, community members, and other student organizations - all in the hopes of assuring the continued recognition of and support for the needs and interests of minorities. Multinational unity is only the first step - We Must go forth and present our plan to the administration, We Must expand our coalition structure. We Must deepen our commitment to challenge future attacks!! We have had the opportunity, first hand, to experience the powerful progress which can be made by masses of concerned and unified people! It imperative that each of us share this experience with our brothers and sisters so that they too may join us in the spirit of unity.
OUR STRENGTH LIES IN ORGANIZATION !! ! It 5 BUILD MULTINATIONAL UNITY !!!! FIGHT ATTACKS ON E.O.P. !!!! WE HAVE DARED TO STRUGGLE AND WE DARE TO WIN ! ! ! ! ! ! !