Cinco de Mayo. The term evokes memories of dancing in the streets, enjoying fine food and drink with loved ones once a year. And so it is, but what is Cinco de Mayo and why do we celebrate it? To understand this we must delve into our past to see why the celebration of Cinco do Mayo is so important. El Cinco de Mayo commemorates the victory of the Mexican troops over the French invaders in 1862 at Puebla, Mexico. This battle signaled the beginning of three years of struggle against what was then called the best army in the world. During the 1850's, a Zapotec Indian named Benito JuArez emerged as one of Mexico's great statesmen and leaders. Juarez early made a name for himself as an effective leader of the Liberal party which opposed the power of the Church and wanted to abolish the special powers and privileges of colonial-minded leaders. On February 5, 1857, Mexico adopted a constitution which ever since then has been regarded as a landmark in the nation's history. This liberal document provoked a bitter three-year civil war, one of the country's bloodiest: perhaps, because for the first time it was more a struggle of ideologies than of personalities. Juarez, who had become president, was captured by Conservative rebels and was about to be shot at Guadalajara. He managed to escape, took a ship for Panama, crossed the isthmus and came back to Veracruz where he set up his government. Juarez promulgated his famous Reform Laws -separating Church and State, abolishing convents and religious orders, expropriating church property, and declaring freedom of worship and civil marriage. Although the Juarez government was able to return to the capital, the Conservatives continued armed resistance and soon enlisted the aid of France, England, and Spain, who prepared to intervene in Mexican affairs under the pretext of gaining payment for large debts owed to Europe by Mexico. France, under Napoleon 111, decided to take advantage of the U.S. involvement with its own Civil War, and planned to set up a monarchy In Mexico under French protection before the United States could continue its own plans of aggression and expansion.
Napoleon knew that there was wealth here. For hadn't the United States already sized much territory from Mexico in the war of 1848? And hadn't that territory including California, contained much gold? With those facts in mind Napoleon started planning the invasion thinking that if France could gain control of the Port of Veracruz, than they could collect what was owed them in port duties. But Britain and Spain soon realized France's true objectives when the port was occupied, and withdrew their support of April 9, 1862. Immediately afterwards, the French made their plans for conquest and with 4,500 men, began marching towards Mexico City. They did not reckon with the town of Puebla through, which stood directly in their path. Puebla had been fortified with Mexican troops and by the evening of May fifth, 1,000 French soldiers lay dead, killed by the army of General Ignacil Zaragosa. Although the French were decisively defeated in the battle at Puebla, they received reinforcements and managed to drive Juarez from the capital. On July 10, 1863, a pseudo-Council of Nobles called together by the Conservatives declared Mexico a monarchy and offered the throne to the Austrian archduke, Maximilian of Hapsburg. Backed by some 63,000 French troops, he governed the parts of Mexico under French rule. Maximilian never did establish the empire envisioned by the French, nor did he secure the cooperation of the people. With the franco-Prussian War of the U.S. over, there was not much France could do, especially in the face of the Monroe Doctrine, which the United States quickly put into effect forcing the French to withdraw their troops. Without the support of the French, Maximilian's empire crumbled, he was later captured at Queretaro and found guilty of intervening In an independent government and executed on June 19, 1867. The victory of the battle of Cinco de Mayo and the three year war proved to the world that Mexico would fight to keep it's freedom and win. This is why we celebrate El Cinco de Mayo, but it is more than just a day of celebration, It is a day of education, awareness and protest.