El Diario de la Gente

EL DIARIO DE LA GENTE is an independent newspaper and magazine published by Chicano students at the University of Colorado at Boulder. We publish our newspaper bi-weekly during the school year, with a magazine at the end of each semester. The editorial content does not necessarily reflect the views of any Chicano organization on campus. Our offices are in the University Memorial Center, Room 416, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, 80302. You can contact us by writing our office or by calling 443-2211, extension 8836. SEND LETTERS EL DIARIO DE LA GENTE staff welcomes all letters and contributions. If you wish to have something published in our newspaper or magazine, send your manuscript to EL DIARIO, UMC 416, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, 80302. All letters must be typed, double spaced, limited to 300 words and signed by the sender. All other articles will be considered on their timeliness and availability of space. Manuscripts will not be returned unless they are accompanied with a stamped, self-addressed envelope. We welcome information, poems, photographs and other contributions from our readers. SUBSCRIPTIONS EL DIARIO is not presently able to offer subscriptions, but for a donation of $2.50 we will send you a minimum of 8 issues. Make checks payable to EL DIARIO DE LA GENTE. ADVERTISING ETC. EL DIARIO is solely supported through advertising and contributions. If you are interested in insuring that Chicanos continue to have access to a free and independent press or if you have a product to sell, we urge you to contact our business manager, Guillermo DeHerrera, at our office. We encourage our students to support our advertisers and we reserve the right to refuse advertising to any product business, or organization we feel is in opposition to LA CAUSA. Co-editors: John Espinosa and Paul Mora Business Manager: Guillermo DeHerrera AssL Editor: Evelyn Martinez Editorial staff: Paul Barela, Steve Estrada, Tony Garcia, Evelyn Martinez, Leonard Maestras, Jose Medina, Jose Ortega, Gloria Rubio, Danny Salazar, Leonard Suarez.