Mad Genie Terrorizes Neighborhood
FAIRY TALE In more ancient times, around the countries of the middle east, when people still believed in the unreal in the days of sultans and eunuchs, according to many still existing legends, there was a unique class of creatures called genies. As many of you know, these creatures were able to perform all sorts of weird things in order to fulfill their masters every wish. The genies you see lived in a magic lamp or lantern and whoever had it had the power to get the genies to serve them, many of us today of course can’t believe in genies, mostly because none have been seen for quite some time. Thus, it was with great surprise that the people of Duskrack 9 discovered that they were in possession of one of these fabulous creatures. Some time ago this genie came to people claiming he would serve them as they had never before known possible. Now, you might get pictures in your head about what this genie looked like, so I better set you straight. First of all, it’s pretty hard to find a magic lamp or lantern or magic anything these days. So when it came to finding a home for himself, the genie had to make do with and old Coors bottle. And even though the genie had his roots in more ancient ways he was also a product of modern times. No, no turban or turkish robe for him instead he wore a black tie and on his head this cute Gl-type crewcut. Now I know what you’re thinking— “that couldn’t be a genie” well, that’s what some of us started saying as we waited for him to start fulfilling our wishes and desires. As time would go on, the name of this creature would echo on the streets during riots: the genie’s name would be whispered in bars; his face would appear in newspaper cartoons; and dogs and cats would discuss his virtues as
they did their daily thing. In local folklore, people would immortalize GENIE DA MEANIE. When he first came to the people of duskrack 9, he said things like he would treat “the whole dustrack and all its citizens with an open-door policy.” He said he wanted to “maintain the integrity of the neighborhood." He said that with more recreation facilities for the kids, drug abuse and crime would go down and that he would in fact work for such facilities. Now, if you’re bored with this information, don’t blame me. I’m only writing what he really said. I know if may sound like the rhetoric of unfilled political promises but then I suppose every genie has a little politician in him and vice versa. Well, let’s start at the beginning. Since most of you have never seen the old style of genie and a few of you have never seen Da Meanie, I’ll tell you what he looked that first day we found his magic Coors bottle in the Denver Stockyard garbage bin. A couple of us had been walking down this alley toking when we noticed the bottle dead center in front of us. It sounded like it was humming to get our attention. We held it up to the light (it was still unopened) and could see a small, black, greasy, kinky pile in the bottle. God knows how many times we’ve wished we hadn’t touched it. Well, anyway. As the bottle opened a hissing noise, a black smoke and a nasty smell (it reminded you of very rotten pork) mushroomed out the top and knocked us on our asses. And then the magic words, "Your wish is my command.” And that’s when he started making all the promises. Well of course we listened, we had to. You understand. Later he was brought before the entire community and even though a lot of those dumb Mexicans objected, he was ac-
cepted. There were some things about him no one knew then that only came out later. This was after he had attacked the high priest Lara since magicians can’t get along with peace-loving priests. One thing I found out later was how he had happened to come to us. It seems that many many years before, Genie da Meanie arrived by boat from the old country. This isn’t the important part. What does matter is that while he was on the ship, he made a pact with a bunch of notorious little gremlin called Mufias. The Mufias were a special breed of gremlins who today have unusual amount of influence over genies and their mortal counterparts, the politicians. Unfortunately, Genie da Meani more often than not would honor his pact with the Mufias rather than his promises to the community. Nobody had asked him to make all those promises. As a matter of fact, a lot of people didn’t even want him around. It was his own decision. So when he started beating people up, we started
trying to get rid of him. One night some of the kids in the neighborhood took out their frustration on buildings by firebombing them. The kids had no jobs to work, they didn’t have enough recreation facilities (Genie da Meanie never came through) and they were being hassled by the cops. Then Genie da Meanie came out with the statement that the cops should "unshackled" to take care of those "young hoodlums who are terrorizing the neighborhood." What he meant was that the cops should teach the kids a lesson by beating them up. Well, that was the last straw. The people of Dustrack 9 brought their grievances to the town elders hoping to find a solution. The town elders weren’t about to do anything though. A lot of them were pretend-Genies and if the people could get rid of da Meanie, then who would be next. Thousand of signatures were brought before the town elders demanding that Genie da Meanie be thrown out. But the rules that had been set down weren’t intended to get rid of genies. They were designed to complicate, to frustrate. Now, I’ll agree we have to have laws and procedures but when Genie da Meanie said all the signatures weren’t any good, he was missing the point. He had his
chance to be a likeable genie and he blew it. Not many of us ever get that chance. So, the people learned, after a lot of effort, that this isn’t the country it’s supposed to be. They made up their minds to take over the Dustrack by force. And Genie da Meanie? Well, we haven’t seen him for some time now. It seems that one of those ecology kids saw a Coors bottle in a office and with good intentions, took it down to be recycled. So as this fairy tale ends here, I’d like to ask you to be careful. Things have changed for better since the people have taken over. We’ve got everything that Genie da Meanie ever promised us. So as favor to the people, stay away from Coors bottles. Don't drink it. Don’t buy it. Don’t even open a bottle. Even if you don’t believe in genies.