We are La RazaThe following poem was written for El Teatro De Ustedes, but it belongs to us all. It can be changed, used and repeated again and again until we are one. All Together we are la raza Defending our barrios Defending our raza Accepting la causa as ours Together we are la raza La Senora I am La Madre who has to go on my knees to the Welfare Office To get the scraps That the System gives to the Poor. I do this for my children Who need food and a place to live I suffer great indignities Against my proud Indian History . . . I suffer for my family every day. I do this because we are Poor. El Senor I am el Padre who, who for so long Never told my children who we really are. I have toiled in the fields I Working for pennies. I have spent long days under the hot sun, Saying yes and bowing my head To a cruel Patron. I also fill the lines at the Employment Office. I do this and much more for my children. El Pinto I am El Pinto, Locked away for years Because I could not afford a Lawyer. I was jailed because I was Brown And because I could not speak English. I was jailed and I am Innocent. But no one will listen. All Together we are la raza Defending our barrios Defending our raza Accepting la causa as ours Together we are la raza DMAS I am UMAS I am fighting at the Universities, Fighting to retain my heritage, my language. Fighting the racist administrators, I will return to my barrio, Where I will be a soldier of la raza, first And a doctor, lawyer, teacher or writer, second. We will build a Chicano nation
I am Brian Sanchez. An actor, a Chicano, Now I am stuck for three years In a Federal Prison Called La tuna. I am a prisoner. Because I dared to oppose an Immigration Officer. Because I believed in Justice I became a Prisoner. Democracy You Lied! Luna I am Jimmy Luna. I died in 1973 and was Buried at Lagarrita. I died a Helgista Believing in a Union And all that it stood for. I died loving La Raza. I died with dreams of Pancho Villa, Emiliano Zapata, And Cesar Chavez on my mind. I am Jimmy Luna. All Together we are la raza Defending our barrios Defending our raza Accepting la causa as ours Together we are la raza Roybal I am Ray Roybal Accused along with Elmer Peralta of Bombing the Fort Lupton Police Department If anyone is to be tried Then it must be the government. Not us. God knows we are the Innocent God knows we are the Innocent. Peralta I am Elmer Peralta Who along with my carnal Roybal Am accused of an act of violence Against a violent society. I am being tried because I am Chicano And because I dared to defend our Raza. And I will do it again. And again. And they will have to try me Again and Again And each time They must find me innocent. Junior I am Junior Martinez, killed in the St. Patrick’s Day Massacre by the white invader. I was a poet, an artist and a revolutionary I have heard the fury of those who are oppressed, I am Luis, I live when my Raza refuses to be enslaved.RoybalPeraltaJuniorFalcon I am Ricardo Falcon. I have been shot and killed a hundred times And yet I live. A white racist bullet will not stop my voice, my thoughts, my spirit. Through all my anger I weep I cry salt drenched tears For the people who did not learn from my death. Who did not learn from my life. I see many men and women who are already dead. They are dead because they refuse to see what they are What we are. If things do not change Then we ought to get it on. I wonder what side you’ll take this time. Will you be my Brother or Sister, Mother of Father or Son. When will we be one. Today or manana or manana or when. Who we are We are you And you are us Together we are la raza Together we are la raza.The movement is for our children, we will carry them until they can carry on our work.Together we are la raza