Our Chicano Heritage
La Llorona weeps on!
“God...in his immense goodness began to send Messengers and signals from heaven, foretelling the Spaniards coming. These caused great fear in this new world, for ten years before the Spaniards came to this land...many times and many nights one heard a woman's voice that wept loudly and drowned her speech in cries, and sighs “Oh my children! We shall be completely lost" ...and other times she would say: “Oh my children, where can I hide you?” Diego Munoz Carmargo For countless generations the legend of La Uorona has been an integral part of the Chicano Heritage. Where did her story begin? Some say that she was the Az,tec goddess Matlaciuatl' a vampire-like creature who stalks desolate places preying and feeding on men. Others say she was Ciuapipiltin, a goddess who ventured forth at midnite carrying an empty cradle, looking and lamenting for her lost child. And many claim that La Llorona is La Malinche, the Indian mistress of Cortes, who eternally laments the betrayal of her people. Whoever or whatever she is, her story is a major part of Chicano folklore. In that space between fantasy and reality, La Llorona is poised, always alert for her release. But strange enough La Llorona may not be limited just to La Chicanda. There exists in Hebrew tradition a female demon known as Lilith. It is said that she “is the strangler of children and the seducer ot men.” Her story dates back as far as Adam and Eve. The Lilith myth begins with the first wife of Adam who, because of a dispute, left him. At Adam’s request, God sent three angels to bring her back and threatened that if she did not return, 100 of her sons were to be destroyed each day. She refused, saying she was expressley created to harm new born babies. God then commanded her to roam the earth for eternity and so Lilith shares her misery by threatening pregnant women and new born babies. La Llorona is of a like spirit. The most common-place belief *is that La Llorona wanders over the Earth lamenting over her lost children This legend began with the Spanish Conquistidor Cortes, who took the Indian maiden Marina, (La Malinche) as his mistress. When Cortes was to return to Spain he wanted to take their son, Hernando, back to Spain with him. La Malinche swore she would kill both herself and their son before she would allow this. When Cortes remained adament, La Malinche stabbed her son to death and then stabbed herself. As she died, her soul escaped from her body issuing a loud lament. To this day her loud wailing is still heard near Chicano communities, as she continues her search for her dead son.
