TO START: Simply Quit Your JOB, MOVE YOUR FAMILY TO BOULDER, AND BUY A PENCIL NOW TAKE UP THE DICE AND YOU'RE READY TO PLAY THE FINANCIAL AID GAME


Start 
A1) Detour If you are White pass up this space; if you are a minority see your special financial aid officer. For example, all Chicanos form a line outside Jerry Solo's office 

B1) Shortcut: If you were in the top 20 percent of your high school class; or if your parents earn between lO,OOO dollars and 15,000 dollars a year or if you can run the 100 in 9.3 take the short-cut. 

B2) Shine Nark Hefty’s boots call Corrsbridge "Mistuh" and don't make any demands of the Governor.

B3) If you’re on the short cut go on to the next space. If you are a regular student, go back two spaces forgetting in the way.

B4) Say the Pledge of Allegiance, sing the star spangled Banner and take a head of lettuce to lunch you've just been overpaid by a computer error.  

B5 and C5) Take President Freddie to lunch, if you can keep from blowing your lunch, advance two spaces. 

B6) Your 57 Chevy just threw a rod. If you're on the short-cut have your parents buy you a new car. If you're a regular student, go back to start and throw a drag. 

B7) You are now ready to start the semester. If you took the short-cut, go to class. If you took the long route, drop out, you’re too far behind to catch up.

C1) The file room lost your records -- go back to start and wait one year for your next turn

C2) Your NDSL Check is delayed -- miss your next three turns trying to find out why

C3) blank

C4) Your work study job of selling boutineers at football games is taken by a glee club member-- report to recreation building to clean shitters

C6) Payroll lost your W4 form - no check this week. Since it's Friday, cut classes since you don't have books anyway

C7) You are broke and can't pay rent - move in with your brother, his 12 kids and his two German Shepards.

C8) Blank

C9) Your wife is not working, deduct 1500 dollars from your financial aid package unless you can get her pregnant before your next return. 
