SHORT STORY

LECHUGUERO

The heat wave danced briefly on top of the lettuce before disappearing into nothing. A 
bead of sweat trickled in a zig-zagging manner down the side of his face, pausing only 
once and then disappearing under his collar. A small whirlwind started, picking up 
speed as it charged menacingly toward him only to disappear into nothing, but he paid 
no attention. With merciless indifference he chopped down the lettuce leaving a 
distance of eight inches between each plant. His hand moved with a mechanical rhythm 
that complimented his light frame. The sun picked a bare spot on the man's back and 
stared, then, angered by the man’s indifference, the sun hid himself behind a cloud and 
must have cried because in a matter of minutes tears started falling. First a few tears hit 
him lightly on the face, then just as unexpectedly as the few tears hit him, a flow of tears 
fell. So much was the flow that in a matter of minutes the man was soaking wet, but 
even this did not stop the man for he was still on his back leaving only eight inches 
between each plant. Then a slow pain started creeping down his back. First it was just a 
slow pulsating pain and then it shot all the way up to his neck and back this pain would 
have stood any other man on his feet but this man kept on spacing the lettuce eight 
inches apart. A burning pain started throbbing in the palm of his hand, as the raw flesh 
rubbed against the wooden handle of the hoe, the burning of the flesh increased with 
every blow the man gave the earth. He seemed to have retaliated for he increased his 
pace and the hand came down faster and faster still leaving only eight inches between each plant. 
At this the sun, recovering from his crying, came out from behind the cloud and stared 
at the man with more intensity, only this time it covered the mans' entire body. The tears 
clinging to the lettuce rose up in anger and as it evaporated it joined the dust to form 
beads of dirty sweat and covered the mans’ entire face. As the dirty sweat streamed 
down and into his eyes the man with one swift motion of his hand wiped the dirty sweat 
away, leaving streaks of dirty sweat on his face, but even this didn’t cause the man to 
lose his pace. Then a rumbling started in his stomach and started getting louder as it 
cried for food. The hunger pains started twisting and growling, making his stomach feel 
as if it was being squeezed. In desperation the man swallowed his saliva which angered 
the humiliated stomach more and increased its grumbling, for it had not eaten in two 
days, but the man kept on at his pace leaving only eight inches between each plant. 
There was no expression on the mans’ face, for he could not afford the luxury of reacting to or feeling pain. The 
mans’ determination was seen in his desperate blows on the earth, for the man knew 
that he was destined to work like this for the rest of his life. He couldn't even afford the 
luxury of daydreams or idle thoughts, for in his mind he was praying to God that it 
wouldn’t rain so he could work all day. His prayers were answered with a sudden flash 
across the sky followed by a thunderous rumbling as the sky turned grey and angrily 
swallowed the sun, the clouds cursed at him and hurled angry insults and threw 
lightning bolts at him but the clouds’ anger was so great that it couldn't hit him. It rained. 
In a matter of minutes it was impossible to work, the hoe was covered with mud and 
getting heavier with every thrust and his feet were covered with mud and getting stuck 
with every step. The rain was so thick the man couldn’t see the lettuce anymore. As the 
man ran towards his car he knew that he wouldn't be eating again today but God willing 
he would try again tomorrow. With that he was swallowed by
the rain and disappeared into nothing. por Celestino

