Teran: Derramador de Fronteras
esa noche in that tragic texas valley when you spoke with earnest words of change, Teran, derramador de fronteras, the barriers crumbled in mindsouls getting a moment's respite from fear. Heriberto Teran, las noticias came dribbling in that a bomb had claimed the fragility of life's blood from you; an old bato, luis diaz de leon, later cried in his san francisco home and recounted having known you long before en el caloroso desmadre de laredo; carnalas/carnales sang of you in boulder, denver, el paso, albuquerque, everywhere, and tigre raged in Ohio, while lalo felt the sadness in the wake of your departure, and we understood that for a number of years you had broken frontiers and cemented brotherhood with your nimble poet’s nuances ... at night, down by the coliseum, your voice still haunts with the ritmos'sentimientos of your canto to Falco'n; that cavernous place where raza unida became hundida, where tears of love and rage commingled in your eyes and your voice chokingly sang un corrido que llovia penas y duelos that unleashed la llorona y la guerra to cast cards/shellsAurbulencia/escalofrios into the complacency of minds preoccupied with politics, your fury sang and cried and called up images of life .. ? que fue tu vida? was it all life, even when hunger assailed and death was knocking its boneyness unto the furrows of your thinking? cuando mirabas cobardias enmielando al movimiento, tu furia se estrechaba y dabas manotazos, aun llorando las perdidas enchufando nuestra raza ...
those moments when madness embroiled your poetic vision, gritabas fuertemente un gigantic grito demando libertad, y dentro el grito existia un carin'oso amor que sentias por la raza. unos sobreviven, otros gozan mientras chupan del elusivo plSstico, otros oprimen al mundo mientras son oprimidos por el lugo y consumidos por envidia, y otros como tu viven compartiendo vitalidad, pan, vino, y humanismo, dejando huellas carinosas estampadas en mentealmas que abrazaron en el espaciotiempo del existir. no, carnal, the idea you lived creatively continues churning on and on, each time your poems enter mindsouls, each time your corrido enlarges the moment, each time the need for revolution sparks feelings, each time a fibre of carnalismo re-awakens recollection of you is re-kindled, and re-dedication to movimiento rears its head again... Teran, you broke down human frontiers with the way you expressed life, and in sharing you became un chicano liberado who lived/loved a praxis toward freedom; you had no grandiose studied ideologies to offer to humble people, you did not pretend to be the holder of truth and wisdom, you did not elitistly behave to put down brothers and sisters, no, eras solamente un bato fronterizo who could not accept barriers amongst our people, and the words of revolution which expressed the way you lived were words that integrity had given you ... you led by example and not by mandate, never seeking glorification, ever asking of la raza to share warmth and brotherhood. hiciste lo que pvdiste, and you became unseekingly un carnal engraved en mentealmas of all who came to know you. we loved you then, Teran, and feel el ahuite of your death, and condemn your assassination con pasion and awareness that only our involvement to change this world can make up for your 1055... only liberation, carnal, can assuage our minds and souls... to live is to be willing to defend the sacredness of our humanity, to bow or cringe is to deny the human-ness of our lives, to fear our pressing need for revolution is to pervert the meaning of our lives, to teach our young to revere life and freedom is to help them free themselves, and as you strove to live, so must we, for you regarded your right to be Chicano and valientemente died todo humano .... Ricardo Sanchez

