Las Comadres
TUCSON ARIZONA: LAS COMADRES por Mario Suarez Whenever two Chlcanos find that they have many things in common they often end up baptizing each other's children and becoming compadres. If they work together, one compadre will often say to the other for all to hear, "Compadre, you are the best boilermaker in Arizona. Tell them who is number two." If they drink together it means they constantly seek each other's company, share the most intimate of secrets, and even cry over their beers, at least until they become cosigners. All of this automatically makes their wives comadres. When two comadres meet, no matter how much they criticize one another behind each others back, they hug one another as though they had not seen each other for years. Then they sit down somewhere and talk over the latest mitote, gossip, flying over El Hoyo's back fences. In the late 20's two comadres, escaping the crowded tenements on Alvarado Street, bought adjoining lots in El Hoyo and in time moved into half-finished adobed -structures. One of these, Anastacia Elizondo, was a stout comadre with four daughters and a husband named Lazarillo who worked for the railroad and who, it was known to everybody, beat her up now and then for being a lousy housekeeper. The other, Lola Lopez, was a comadre who, to escape the city laundry, had converted her front room into a store where she eked out a living by selling the five cents of yellow cheese, the ten cents of beans, and the chango coffee. She had two young sons, Tino and Kiko, as well as a husband named Nacho who constantly complained of the ailments he had incurred in a fall while building the house and therefore could not work but always came home drunk to serenade his Lola, as well as the neighbors, at daybreak.
Whenever Anastacia got one of her beatings she immediately ran next door to her comadre Lola with tears welling from her eyes to bubble, "Me p..pego. He...He b...beat me, c...comadre. Wh...what am I t. ..to do?" "Oh, he will change, Anastacia. He will change," comforted Lola. "I am sure of it." "Wh...what a m...miserable cr... creature I am," sobbed Anastacia. "I wish I were d...dead." In the ensuing years, though the rest of the world was to experience such far reaching events as the stock market crash, the end of prohibition, a cruel depression and the rise of Schicklgruber, the human condition of El Hoyo and its inhabitants remained very much the same. True, a decade and a half had given Anastacia a slight down over her upper lip along with a few more pounds. However, her bad housekeeping habits continued, along with her usual beatings. Lola, in turn, had enlarged her store and ran it with the help of her two sons. She was still serenaded by her ever ailing Nacho at daybreak. Meanwhile, Anastacia's oldest daughter Maria Luisa and Lola's son Tino, who had scratched, bit, and kicked one another in the days when Anastacia came over after one of her beatings and who saw one another through the years with the familiarity of brother and sister, came to fall in love, an event which, once realized, was obvious and final. Hitler's march, however, could not but have repercussions felt all the way to El Hoyo. And, Pearl Harbor, the ensuing trickle, then river, of money which found its way to El Hoyo via the air base, increased railroad activity, an aircraft plant and ultimately allotment checks, was such that even the
spirit of comadreada underwent a change. Soon comadres who had known each for years, on installing inside plumbing, suddenly turned their faces and put their noses in the air when they chanced on one another in the street. Other comadres, buying chenille bed spreads and Venetian blinds for the first time, soon said of other comadres not yet as fortunate, "Al, those peoples. Esa gente. They do not know how to live." And still other comadres, moving out of El Hoyo, thanks to their husbands' steady encounter with the time clock, went as far as t;o say, "El Hoyo? Where is that?" The sickness even afflicted a few compadres. Through all of this Anastacia, considering herself a very level headed person, merely said to her comadre Lola, "Ai comadre. What liars some women ara. They have much more tongue than sense. As for me, you know how my Lararillo has always earned his good checks, especially now that he often work* double shifts. Yet never have I given to bragging." Lola merely nodded and said nothing. One night Lazarillo's rage was so great on finding that his food was not ready when he came home from a long shift that he blackened one of Anastacia's eyes. Immediately Anastacia ran next door to her comadre Lola with tears welling from her eyes. "He has tr..tried t..to k..kill me," she cried. "Ai comadre. What am I t..to do?" Lola, often tempted to tell Anastacia to correct her housekeeping habits merely said, "Oh, he will change." However, the following beatings Anastacia received were so violent that she decided on a separation. She cashed in a few war bonds and, with her daughters in tow, moved far away from El Hoyo and her tormenting husband Lazarillo. For a long time nobody saw or heard much of Anastacia. Mitote has it, however, that she was now working at the air base and had dyed her hair. And, mitote had it that one day she was overheard saying to another comadre who had also moved out of El Hoyo, "Ai, how good it feels to live away from El Hoyo, away from so many low class people. I am so glad my daughters now live away from there and will never marry beneath their class." As to her comadre Lola, Anastacia had been known to answer when asked about her, "I am sorry, pero y0...1 do not know any Lola Lopez." Anastacia's daughter Marla Luisa, however, kept on seeing Lola's Tino in spite of her mother's advice until the day Uncle Sam greeted him and gave him travel orders. Anastacia, overjoyed, sighed with relief and said, "Thank God he is gone. I am sure any daughter of mine can do better than to keep company with the son of an ex-laundry worker." But Maria Luisa, having given her beloved Tino the greatest proof of her love to take with him... Months latter.... When it was obvious, Anastacia became indignant. She cried. She cursed. She threatened to kill herself. "But what will your father say? What of our neighbors? What 0f..." " "I don't care about the neighbors, mama," replied Maria Luisa. "As for my father, I already told him." "You what?" asked Anastacia, shocked. "I phoned him and told him," said Maria Luisa, matter of factly. "All he asks is that I be a good wife." Once again Anastacia cried, cursed, threatened to kill herself. But, realizing it was to no avail, the embossed invitations went out the minute Tino phoned Informing Marla Luisa the dates of his leave. On the morning the young couple emerged from the cathedral as man and wife, Anastacia, in white satin, white gloves, and a gigantic hat, excitedly went about her new friends, among them many Smiths and Hendersons, assuring them that her new son-in-law was of the most excellent family, scarcely noticing the presence of her comadre Lola and her compadre Nacho, both of these awed by the magnificence of the affair. At the reception, held at Anastacla's fashionable apartment rather than at Lola's house in El Hoyo as tradition dictated, it happened that Marla Luisa's corsets did their job so well that, to the surprise of the select guests, the bride's labor pangs began and even before she could be helped to the bedroom nature relieved the bride of a screaming, kicking Chicano. In the excitement the young priest who had arrived at the house for his chocolate and he could do no more than start to make a half hearted effort to preach about sin. But with Anastacla crying, then fainting, the guests in a state of exhilaration and disbelief, and the affair in a general state of confusion, he smiled inwardly and poured himself some whisky from a nearby bottle. To have been heard above all the commotion he would have needed a bigger set of lungs. Late that afternoon, the petals of Maria Luisa's bridal bouquet still fragrant, found Anastacla in El Hoyo, crying inconsolably on her comadre Lola's shoulder, "What a miserable creature I am, comadre. Today has been the most tragic day of my life. How I wish I were dead." "Tragic? On the contrary," said Lola. "I think this day has been a very memorable one for both of us. We are both now mother-in-laws, grandmothers as well as comadres. And, because we are now more than comadres, I must tell you it would be best if you moved back to your house. Lazarillo is still there. I am sure he misses you even though it is said you have forgotten him." "Bad tongues, comadre. Bad tongues. I have never forgotten my beloved Lazarillo. Ai comadre. What would I ever do without you?" That very night, under cover of darkness. Anastacia and her daughters were back in El Hoyo. But if Lazarillo had once rained blows on her, more to Anastacia's dismay, he was now indifferent. Everyday Lazarillo got up, ate in silence, and went to work. Even though he often came home past midnight, Anastacia now had his food ready, not to mention the great care she took to wash his clothes, clean the house. Still Lazarillo remained indifferent. "Que hare?" asked Anastacla, crying on her comadre's shoulder. What shall I do?" "All you can do is cook his food, prepare his clothes and clean the house as you are doing," said Lola. "He will change." "Alas, comadre," sighed Anastacla, the tears running down her cheeks. "I fear I have lost his love. How I wish I were dead." A few weeks later, however, most of El Hoyo was awakened one night by wails, cries, and crashing furniture. For a while it seemed as though somebody was being murdered. A few comadres maliciously even thought of phoning the police because a good scandal would provide mitote for weeks. But nobody did and in a few hours all was peaceful again. Our comadre Anastacla, lying in bed with a pair of black eyes and her hair disheveled, bubbled on her pillow. As she heard her comadre Lola's Nacho start her serenade a few windows away, Anastacla breathed deeply of El Hoyo's cool summer air and sighed dreamily. Then she gently scratched her own Lazarillo's shoulder and asked, "Are you awake, my love?" The End.

