Poetry of ancient mexican indians
It is the beginning of the men of the second term. Let us raise on high the sign Let us raise up the tree of life. Everything will change in a moment. The successor will appear. Of the first tree on earth. The change will he manifest to all. From the sky he comes, he who spreads the word, for you. to give you life. Oh Itza, It will dawn for those who believe, within the next Kathun, oh father. Believe in these my words, I. the Chilam Balam*, I have explained to the world the word of God, so that it be heard to the limits of this earth, oh father! It is the word of God, lord of heaven and earth. Good indeed is his word in the heavens, oh father! ‘ Katun: a period of 20 years *Chilam Balan: Holy scripts containing accounts of the origins of earth, mythology, and histories of migrations of the Tutul-Xiuh, Itza, and other Indian nations of Mexico and Central America. At last my heart knows; for now I hear a song, I contemplate a flower which will not wither!
Given over to sadness or remain here on earth, where is the road that leads to the region of the dead, the place of our downfall, the country of the fleshless? Is it true perhaps that one lives there, where we all go? Does your hurt believe this? lie hides us in a chest, in a coffer, the Giver of Life, He who shrouds people in the grave. Will / be able to look upon, able to see. perhaps, the face of my mother? of my father? Will they loan me A few songs? a few words? / will have to go down there, nothing do / expect. They leave us, given over to sadness  / am come, oh my friends, with necklaces / entwine you. with feathers of the macaw / adorn you, a precious bird, / dress with feathers, I paint with gold. I embrace mankind, with trembling quetzal feathers, with cirolets of song, / give myself to the community. / will carry you with me to the palace where we all. someday, all must betake out selves, to the region of the dead. Our life has only been loaned to us!
They shall not wither, my flowers, they shall not cease, my songs. I, the singer, lift them up. They are scattered, they spread about. Even though on earth my flowers May wither and yellow, they will be carried there, to the innermost house of the bird with the golden feathers. There is a clamor of bells, the dust rises as if it were smoke. The Giver of Life is gratified. Shield flowers open their blossoms, the glory spreads, it becomes linked to earth. Death is here among the flowers in the midst of the plain! Close to the war. when the war begins, in the midst of the plain, the dust rises as if it were smoke. entangled and twisted round with flowery strands of death. Oh Chichimec princes! Do not fear, my heart! hi the midst of the plain my heart craves death by the obsidian edge. Only this my heart craves: death in war May your heart open! May your heart draw near! You bring me torment, you bring me death. / will have to go there where / must perish. Will you weep for me one last time? Will you feel sad for me? Really we are only friends. I will have to go, / will have to go.
On the day I3-Ahau, the Katun* will come to an end in the time of the Itza. in the time of Tancah. Lord of Maya pan. There is the sign of the one and only God. The sacred tree will come, it shall be manifest to all. so that the World shall be enlightened, oh father. It will be the beginning of strife, the beginning of rivalry, the man-priest will come, he will bring the sign of God in time to come, oh father! Shouting from a distance, he will come and you will see the pheasant which flies over the tree of life. A new day shall dawn in the north. it will dawn in the west. Itzan will disappear. Our father comes very close, oh Itza! Your elder brother is coming, he who is before the sacred stone. Receive your guests, the bearded men, the who come from the east, the bearers of the sign of God. Good and wise is the word of God, which comes to us. Comes the day of our life, do not lose it in the world, oh father . The river passes, passes, never stops. The wind passes, passes, never stops. Life passes, never returns.
