Philanthropy funding disregardDear Editor: The National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy is a coalition of low-income, racial/ethnic minority, women¡¯s and social change groups, who in their attempts to meet the pressing public needs of their constituents, have become concerned about the existing allocation patterns, access and accountability of private philanthropy. One of the major thrusts of NCRP is to work with local groups to urge them to assess the patterns of philanthropic giving in their own communities as they relate to critical public needs. This is an issue which should be of concern to all non-profit organizations which are dependent to some degree upon the support of foundations. United Way¡¯s and corporate-giving programs to carry out their activities, and which have experienced frustrations in seeking private funding. Because your publication reaches people served by such groups, we are enclosing a brief announcement inviting them to contact us for information and advice on how to proceed with the assessment of their local philanthropies. We would appreciate it if you could print the announcement, as written or shortened if space is limited. Almost $27 billion annually is spent by private philanthropy on what are loosely termed ¡°public needs.¡± Yet studies done recently document how few dollars from private philanthropy flow to organizations working actively to correct injustices suffered by racial/ethnic minorities, by women and by other Americans generally powerless before the major governmental, economic and other institutions in the United States. Most private philanthropic dollars are contributed by individuals. Nevertheless, private foundations, community foundations, company-sponsored foundations, and corporations distribute over $3 billion annually, and federated fundraising organizations, such as United Way, collect, spend and distribute from $l-2 billion annually. These figures are relatively small compared to governmental expenditures. But then again, there is an extremely limited availability of government dollars to fund organizations which challenge how the government conducts its business, or how business often tries to conduct government, or how business, government and major nonprofit institutions not infrequently disregard the rights and interests of racial/ethnic minorities, women, poor people, older Americans and other citizens outside the mainstream. Therefore, the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy has formed: to focus more attention on what private philanthropy does, and does not do, with its critical dollar resources;What can you or your organization do? The National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy has some ideas. Because of the limited information available, we believe that assessments of the patterns of philanthropy need to be made in every major locale and in every critical area of public need. We think that these assessments should look at the priorities of philanthropy¡¯s grant-giving programs, at the public¡¯s access t philanthropy¡¯s decision-making, and at philanthropy¡¯s accountability to the public. Further, we think that wide publicity should be sought for the findings and recommendations for reform which emerge from these studies. But the National Committee would also like to hear your thoughts about what can be done. , sincerely, Robert O. Both well Executive Director Write to Bob Bothwell, Executive Director, 1000 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007, or call him at 202/965-5380 Thanks El Diario Staff, Comarados: We recently received your July 77 edition, thanks. We appreciate getting the paper, and wanted to let you know this. Keep up the good work, and please continue to let us know what¡¯s happening in Colorado, Aztlan. Unidad En Lucha, Phil Torres for MECHA Communications University of California, Berkeley