A World of Dreams

bv Orlando Martinez

It is an old Spanish proverb that says, They who have no castles in the air Will have no castles anywhere. It is in the world of dreams, that world without racism, the one in which we are truly loved, that we find that extra special touch of fulfillment. It is on this foundation of dreams that we build our grandest expectations. Martin Luther King expressed the mighty inspirational and spiritual qualities dreams possess when his words “I have a dream” rolled out across the stately lawns of Washington. It is unto the cradle of dreams that we entrust our future. If this future (our dream) fails, if all our efforts for dignity prove futile, if our lives, that could have been satisfying, and worthwhile are not, then we can look directly to the main source of our discontent. Towards a menace that means to tear out, to render meaningless our very dreams, the ideals, and the future that these dreams ultimately represent. A force of cruelty and ignorance that means to lay waste to everything we hold to be priceless and necessary. That sinister force is racism! Some may say we are free, but our emancipation has not arrived and we are deeply concerned with what lies ahead. What new complications will pour from this predatory society and from capitalism’s Pandora’s box of race and class division? But we are not afraid. Our human invincibility, our new cultural awareness and the

inspiration that always follows such a revelation will more than match the problems on the road to freedom. Our final victory will reveal to everyone that the myth of racial superiority is no more substantial than the temporary power it holds. To the bigots, besotted by hatred, blind to human want, who have stumbled off the road of dreams and off the path of history, we say history has not for one moment stopped to mourn the tragedies you have filled its pages with, because it is the honorable people that make true history, and they are eternally optimistic. They know that in their darkest hour the truth will prevail. And like a fairy tale, or a dream, bring back into the hearts of the people hope, and with that the courage to lift themselves up, and say with complete confidence “Our final victory is assured, because history is on our side.” History and the truth is not only dedicated to our struggle, but also to the struggle of our sisters, and brothers in Southern Africa, and in Northern Ireland. To the young Chicano we say: it is a privilege to be on the side of the truth, and on the road to history, but like all other great causes it demands discipline and obligation. It is also a priceless gift to grow up with your dreams unfettered. It is your dreams that fill us with hope, that fill our lifes with the exhilarating possibility that we can shape the world we live in, and that somehow, and in some way we can make our (your) dream come true.