Work-study Jobs 
Students who were told that they would not receive workstudy jobs this semester due to their failure to report for work last semester now may apply for new work-study assignments. Additional monies were received by the work-study office, making the jobs offer possible. For additional information, contact Janet Sandoval at ext. 8416. 
Conejos
The Boulder Lettuce Boycott Committee will hold an evening of concern to discuss and answer questions about the farm workers situation. Recent Lettuce Boycott activities in Boulder have raised many questions among consumers. The committee hopes that the public will take advantage of this occasion to present questions for discussion and clarification. Richard Longoria, Denver Boycott Organizer for the United Farm Workers Union, will speak at the meeting. The movie, “MIGRANT" will be shown to inform Boulder people about present living conditions of the migrant farm workers across the country. This meeting will be held at the Boulder Public Library Auditorium, Canyon and 9th Street. 7:15 p.m., Wednesday, February 21st. Importante
 Students registered for independent studies, 199-499 Sociology, or Mexican American Studies. Please contact Mr. Abeyta or Mr. Tellez for information. No later than February 23, 1973 Ketchum 11, 1 la, and 12. Ext. 8852,7798,8853...
5th of May 
Volunteers to organize the Maya Conference must commit their services this week. Silvia Manzaneres will direct the committee can be located at U.M.C. 187 or ext. 6571. Timing is important, don't hesitate. 
English Tutoring Schedule Students desiring help in English can now contact tutors at T.B. I, room 107. Tutors will be available on Mondays from one to two p.m., on Tuesdays from nine to I I a.m. and one to 10 p.m., on Wednesday from one to five p.m., Thursdays from one to 10 p.m., and on Fridays from one to three p.m. 
Minority Scholarships
Fellowships for minority students who desire to attend graduate school for a masters degree in business administration are now available through the efforts of the consortium for graduate study in Management. The consortium planners emphasize that previous work or study in business or economics is not a requirement for graduate study in business management. In other words, as long as the minority group student has a bachelor of arts degree, he is eligible for attendance at one of the six graduate schools. The graduate programs now exist at six universities: Indiana University, the University of Rochester, University of Southern California, Washington University, the University of Wisconsin, and the University of North Carolina.
Joey Henderson is coordinating efforts for the admission of minority students to the program. For further information, contact her at the UMC, room 328, or call ext. 8358. 
Chicano Veterans
A CU chapter of the Collegiate Veterans Association is being established now, and the members are seeking Chicano input. The veterans are seeking to combine the five existing veterans groups, the American Legion, the G.I. Forum, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled Veterans and the Collegiate Veteran's Association into one viable veterans organization, the United Veteran’s Subcommittee. Of special importance now is a bill pending in the Colorado legislature which would grant tuition waivers to Colorado veterans. For further ingormation, contact Tom War, president of the Collegiate Veterans Association at CU, at ext. 7687 or at the UMC 184. 
Chicano Library
The UMAS-EOP Chicano library has now opened, but no books are allowed to be checked out. The library is being staffed this semester by Cleo Jaramillo, Mary Lucero and Richard Haro. These students have information concerning all the Chicano and Mexican-American books and periodicals in Norlin Library. They are each working «*"'en hours a week in Norlin Library in order to learn about all the Mexican-American material so that they can help you. The library is open for browsing on Mondays from one to three p.m., Wednesday from two to five p.m., Thursday from 10 a.m. to one p.m., and Friday from one to three p.m. For further information call Mary Ann Shea at ext. 8316.
