Noticias-Noticias
Chicano Masses 
Every first and third Sunday the 12:30 a.m. mass at St. Thomas Aquinas will be celebrated in Spanish. Ushers and readers from among the Chicano students are being asked to volunteer their services for the masses. 
Visiting Inmates 
Anyone interested in visiting inmates of the Englewood Federal Youth Center on Wednesday, Feb. 7. should contact Sister Betty Edl at 4438386. Many Chicano, Black, and Indian prisoners would welcome your visit. 
Legal Aid 
Chicano Law students have seven legal aid counselors for most kinds of legal problems. However, the Chicano law students cannot handle felonies or fee generating cases with settlements of more than $300. For aid in legal matters, students can call 443-2211, ex. 8126, or 449-0245. 
Child Development Center 
The Child Development Center Project is in the process of distributing a survey to students, staff, and faculty at the University to assess the needs for child care of both the University and the community. The questionnaire may be picked up at the Boulder Public Library, University Memorial Center Room 231, or by calling 443-2211, ex. 6957. The questionnaire should be returned to the Child Development Center at the University by February 16. 
People’s Clinic 
The Boulder Peoples Clinic would like to make their services available to Spanish speaking people in the Boulder area. If vou would like to help with Spanish speaking patients, call Sophia at 449-6050, or it you need medical help you can come to the clinic. On Monday, Wednesday and Friday, the VD Clinic is open from 12-2 p.m. with a doctor in attendance. On Tuesday, the Women's Clinic (birth control, etc.) and the pediatrics clinic are open from 2-4 p.m. The General Clinic is open from 7-0 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday nights. 
DROP/ADD
Tom Trujillo of the Office of Admissions and Records is now handling all waivers for Drop and Add Ices. Students can contact Tom in the Office of Admissions and Records, Regent Hall 205. MAP-UMAS Basketball Tournament 
The third annual MAPUMAS basketball tournament will be held February 10 and I I at Sacred Heart School and Platte Junior High School gyms. Nineteen teams from Colorado and Nebraska will be competing for the championship. Preliminary and quarter final games begin Saturday, with the semi finals and final championship game on Sunday. Admission price is $1 per day. Students can contact Tom or John Garcia at Ext. 8492 or the UMAS Recreation Department, ex. 8316, for further information. Chicana G.E.D.S 
Wives of UMAS, MAP and all other Chicanos students can now participate in classes for the General Education Diploma (GED). Classes are being held Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights from 7-10 in Hellems 287 on campus. For further information, call Mrs. Garcia at 447-121 3. 
MAP Meeting 
The Migrant Action Program will hold a MAP student meeting on Tuesday, February 6, in UMC 156. 
Graduate Study 
The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management will be visiting the University of Colorado's Boulder campus on February Bth, from 2-5 p.m. They will be conducting interviews in the Career Planning and Placement Center, stadium entrance 66.
